'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_strlog.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:44:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: register_strlog.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_STRLOG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_strlog, vstrlog_t
\- register a new
.I STREAMS
log device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strlog.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef int (*vstrlog_t)(short, short, char, unsigned short, char *, va_list);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "vstrlog_t register_strlog(vstrlog_t " newlog );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
arguments are as follows:
.TP
.I newlog
a new logging function to register of type
.BR vstrlog_t .
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
provides the ability for a
.I STREAMS
driver to alter the behaviour of the
.BR strlog (9)
and
.BR vstrlog (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
registers a new logging function and is used by the
.BR log (4)
driver.
By default,
when the
.BR log (4)
driver is not loaded,
.BR vstrlog_hook ()
is set to
.BR vstrlog_default ()
that simply prints a formatted message to the
.B Linux
kernel system logs ala
.BR printk ().
.BR register_strlog ()
allows the
.BR log (4)
driver to register a full
.I STREAMS
.BR strlog ()
compatible logging function against
.BR vstrlog_hook ().
.BR register_strlog ()
returns the old value of the
.BR vstrlog_hook ()
function pointer that can be used with
.BR register_strlog ()
to replace the old function.
If
.I newlog
is
.BR NULL ,
calls to
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
will do nothing and return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function used by the
.BR log (4)
driver to replace the behaviour of the
.BR strlog (9)
and
.BR vstrlog (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.PP
Any non-portable, specialized log driver that is to be used as a replacement for
.BR log (4)
driver or default function can also use this function to register to the
.B vstrlog_t
hook.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
returns a function pointer to the function that was previously registered against the
.BR strlog (9)
utility.  In the case of the
.BR log (4)
driver, this will be
.BR vstrlog_default .
The return value can be used as the
.I newlog
argument in a subsequent call to
.BR register_strlog ()
to de-register the installed function pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is intended to be called from process context in kernel module initialization procedures for the
.BR log (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is MP-safe.  The
.BR strlog (9),
.BR vstrlog (9),
and
.BR register_strlog ()
functions take read-write locks on a global
.B vstrlog_reg_lock
lock to protect and support
.BR log (4)
driver kernel module unloading.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SS Example #1 - \fBlog\fP(4) strlog registration
.PP
The following example is taken directly from the
.BR log (4)
driver contained in the
.I src/drivers/log.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static vstrlog_t oldlog = NULL;
 2  
 3  int __init
 4  log_init(void)
 5  {
 6      int err;
 7  
 8      printk(KERN_INFO LOG_BANNER);
 9      log_minfo.mi_idnum = modid;
10      if ((err = register_strdev(&log_cdev, major)) < 0)
11          return (err);
12      if (major == 0 && err > 0)
13          major = err;
14      /* hook into vstrlog */
15      oldlog = register_strlog(&log_vstrlog);
16      return (0);
17  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.IP "\fBLine 8-13\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(en'u
The
.BR log (4)
driver first registers with
.I STREAMS
as a
.I STREAMS
driver.
.IP "\fBLine 15\fR:"
The
.BR log (4)
driver then hooks to the
.BR strlog (9)
function with
.BR register_strlog ().
The returned value is save for later de-registration.
.\"
.SS Example #2 - log(4) strlog deregistration
.PP
The following example is taken directly from the
.BR log (4)
driver contained in the
.I src/drivers/log.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  void __exit
 2  log_exit(void)
 3  {
 4      /* unhook from vstrlog */
 5      register_strlog(oldlog);
 6      unregister_strdev(&log_cdev, major);
 7  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.IP "\fBLine 5\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(en'u
.BR register_strlog ()
is called with the stored value of the previous hook function,
.IR oldlog ,
to de-register the hook function.  This must be performed before the
.BR log (4)
driver is de-registered from
.IR STREAMS .
.IP "\fBLine 6\fR:"
The
.BR log (4)
driver unregisters as a
.I STREAMS
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
