'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_strmod.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2007/03/25 00:52:41 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/25 00:52:41 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: register_strmod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2007/03/25 00:52:41  brian
.\" - synchronization updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_STRMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_strmod
\- register a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int register_strmod(modID_t " modid ", struct fmodsw *" fmod );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'modid\(em'u
.I modid
a module identification number containing the module identifier to register.
.TP
.I fmod
A pointer to a
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure indicating the characteristics of the module.
The following members of the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure, pointed to by
.IR fmod ,
are significant:
.RS
.TP \w'f_sqinfo\(em'u
.I f_name
the name of the module.  This name is use to register the
.I STREAMS
module.
.TP
.I f_str
a pointer to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
module.
.TP
.I f_flag
flags indicating options associated with the module.  See
.BR fmodsw (9)
for more information.
.TP
.I f_sqlvl
synchronization queue level.  See
.BR fmodsw (9)
for more information.
.TP
.I f_sqinfo
synchronization queue info.  See
.BR fmodsw (9)
for more information.
.TP
.I f_kmod
a pointer to the kernel module
.RB "(typically " THIS_MODULE )
to be incremented when a the module is opened or
.I STREAMS
subsystem resource allocations are made,
and decremented when the module is closed or
.I STREAMS
subsystems resources are freed.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
registers the
.I STREAMS
module described by the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure,
.IR fmod ,
against the module identification number specified by
.IR modid .
.PP
When
.IR modid
is non-zero, the specified module id will be used for registration.
The
.IR modid
can also be set to zero (0) to indicate that the
.I STREAMS
executive should assign an available module identification number.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
is provided to register
.I STREAMS
modules written for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.BR register_strmod ()
is also used internally to support the other
.I STREAMS
configuration and initialization mechanisms.  For other implementation
specific module registration functions provided by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
see
.BR str_install_AIX (9),
.BR str_install_HPUX (9),
.BR lis_register_strmod (9),
.BR strmod_add (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR register_strmod ()
registers the
.I STREAMS
module described by
.I fmod
and returns a positive number returning the specified or assigned module
identification number.  Upon failure,
.BR register_strmod ()
does not effect registration and returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR register_strmod ()
fails to register the specified
.I STREAMS
module, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[EINVAL]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fmod
is
.BR NULL .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fmod->f_name
is
.BR NULL .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fmod->f_name
contains an invalid name.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
the requested module identification number
.I modid
already has a 
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure other than
.I fmod
registered against it.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I modid
was zero (0) requesting dynamic allocation of a module identification number
and no module identification numbers are available for allocation.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
can be called from any blocking context.
.BR register_strmod ()
is intended to be called from the
.BR module_init ()
procedure of a kernel module associated with the
.I STREAMS
module.
.BR register_strmod ()
may be called from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine of another
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_strmod ()
when loading must call
.BR unregister_strmod (9)
before unloading.
.BR unregister_strmod (9)
must be called with the same value of
.I fmod
with which
.BR register_strmod ()
was called.
.PP
Modules registered with
.BR register_strmod ()
will appear in
.BR /proc/streams/modules .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR unregister_strmod (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR str_install_AIX (9),
.BR str_install_HPUX (9),
.BR lis_register_strmod (9),
.BR strmod_add (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
is a
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
lfs
.]
implementation specific function, with the following compatibility
considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
uses the function
.BR str_install_AIX (9)
with the
.B STR_LOAD_MOD
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
uses the function
.BR str_install_HPUX (9)
with the
.B STR_IS_MODULE
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
uses the function
.BR lis_register_strmod (9)
to register modules.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
uses the function
.BR strmod_add (9)
with the
.B STR_IS_MODULE
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and unregistration of
.I STREAMS
modules is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR register_strmod ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
