'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_ioctl32.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 12:53:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: register_ioctl32.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 12:53:55  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_IOCTL32 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_ioctl32
\- register a 32-bit IO control command
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "void *register_clone(unsigned int " cmd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cmd
the 32-bit IO control command to register
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
registers a 32-bit IO control command to be processed by the Stream head on
.B LP64
architectures supporting 32-bit IO controls on a 64-bit kernel.
.PP
On
.B Linux
kernels prior to 2.6.11 it is necessary for the driver or module to register its 32-bit IO control
commands, otherwise, the kernel will not pass these IO control commands to the driver, or in the
case of conflict with another
.RI (non- STREAMS )
device, might pass inappropriate arguments.
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
and
.BR unregister_ioctl32 (9)
are provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to allow the
.I STREAMS
module or driver to register its 32-bit IO control commands with the Linux kernel.
.PP
Once registered, 32-bit IO control commands will be passed to
.BR strioctl (9)
with the
.B FILP32
flag set in
.BR file->f_flags ,
and with the
.B IOC_ILP32
value set in the
.I ioc_flag
or
.I cp_flag
members of the
.BR iocblk (9)
or
.BR copyresp (9)
structure contained in an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message.
.PP
Because the registration mechanism only affects
.I STREAMS
devices, it does not interfere with other devices in the
.B Linux
system, regardless of IO control command conflicts.
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
is only necessary for
.B Linux
kernels prior to kernel 2.6.11.  For kernels 2.6.11 or greater, 32-bit IO control commands are
automatically passed to the Stream head for processing.  On these later kernels, the functions
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
and
.BR unregister_ioct32 (9)
are unnecessary and have no effect if called.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_ioct32 ()
is called multiple time for the same device driver with different selections of the
.I cmd
IO control command argument, and returns an opaque pointer that used as a handle for the IO control
command for use with a call to
.BR unregister_ioctl32 (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
registers the 32-bit IO control command described by
.I cmd
and returns
.RB non- NULL
opaque pointer providing a registration handle.
Upon failure,
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
does not effect registration and returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
fails to register the specified
.I STREAMS
32-bit IO control command, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
only fails and returns a
.B NULL
pointer when it is unable to allocated memory necessary to provide the 32-bit IO control.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
can be called from any blocking context.
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
is intended to be called from the
.BR module_init ()
procedure of a kernel module associated with the
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
may be called from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine of the
.I STREAMS
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
when loading must call
.BR unregister_ioctl32 (9)
before unloading.
.BR unregister_ioctl32 (9)
must be called with the
.RB non- NULL
opaque
.B void *
void pointer that was returned from the call to
.BR register_ioctl32 ().
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of registration and unregistration from the
.IR "STREAMS Administrative Driver" ,
described in
.BR sad (4),
taken from the
.I src/drivers/sad.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution directory:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2
 1  struct sad_ioctl {
 2          unsigned int cmd;
 3          void *opaque;
 4  };
 5  
 6  static struct sad_ioctl sad_map[] = {
 7          {.cmd = SAD_SAP,}
 8          , {.cmd = SAD_GAP,}
 9          , {.cmd = SAD_VML,}
10          , {.cmd = SAD_SAP_SOL,}
11          , {.cmd = SAD_GAP_SOL,}
12          , {.cmd = 0,}
13  };
14  
15  void
16  sad_unregister_ioctl32(void)
17  {
18          struct sad_ioctl *i;
19  
20          for (i = sad_map; i->cmd != 0; i++)
21                  if (i->opaque != NULL)
22                          unregister_ioctl32(i->opaque);
23  }
24  
25  int
26  sad_register_ioctl32(void)
27  {
28          struct sad_ioctl *i;
29  
30          for (i = sad_map; i->cmd != 0; i++) {
31                  if ((i->opaque =
32                       register_ioctl32(i->cmd)) ==
33                      NULL) {
34                          sad_unregister_ioctl32();
35                          return (-ENOMEM);
36                  }
37          }
38          return (0);
39  }
40  
41  #ifdef CONFIG_STREAMS_SAD_MODULE
42  static
43  #endif
44  int __init
45  sad_init(void)
46  {
47          int err;
48  
49  #ifdef CONFIG_STREAMS_SAD_MODULE
50          printk(KERN_INFO SAD_BANNER);
51  #else
52          printk(KERN_INFO SAD_SPLASH);
53  #endif
54          if ((err = sad_register_ioctl32()) < 0)
55                  return (err);
56          sad_minfo.mi_idnum = modid;
57          if ((err =
58               register_strdev(&sad_cdev, major)) < 0) {
59                  sad_unregister_ioctl32();
60                  return (err);
61          }
62          if (major == 0 && err > 0)
63                  major = err;
64          bzero(&sads, sizeof(sads));
65          register_strnod(&sad_cdev, &sad_node_admin, 0);
66          register_strnod(&sad_cdev, &sad_node_user, 1);
67          return (0);
68  };
69  
70  #ifdef CONFIG_STREAMS_SAD_MODULE
71  static
72  #endif
73  void __exit
74  sad_exit(void)
75  {
76          unregister_strnod(&sad_cdev, 1);
77          unregister_strnod(&sad_cdev, 0);
78          unregister_strdev(&sad_cdev, major);
79          sad_unregister_ioctl32();
80  };
81  
82  #ifdef CONFIG_STREAMS_SAD_MODULE
83  module_init(sad_init);
84  module_exit(sad_exit);
85  #endif
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR strioctl (9),
.BR iocblk (9),
.BR copyresp (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR sad (4),
.BR unregister_ioctl32 (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
Registration of
.I STREAMS
driver and module 32-bit IO control commands is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementations provide different mechanisms.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for mechanisms compatible with other implemenations
and additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of \fISTREAMS\fR 32-bit IO control commands is implementation
specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
is a
.BR @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_ioctl32 ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
