'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_cmajor.9.man,v 0.9.2.9 2006/04/05 09:44:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: register_cmajor.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_CMAJOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_cmajor
\- register a device external major number
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int register_cmajor(struct cdevsw *" cdev ", major_t " major ", struct file_operations *" fops );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fImajor\fR\(em'u
.I cdev
a pointer to a
.BR cdevsw (9)
.I STREAMS
character device switch table entry representing the
.I STREAMS
driver to which to register a major device node.
.TP
.I major
the device major number to register;
.TP
.I fops
the file operations to register against the character device.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
registers the file operations,
.IR fops ,
to the
.I STREAMS
driver defined by
.IR cdev
under the major device number specified by
.IR major .
.PP
.I cdev
points to a
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure representing the
.I STREAMS
device driver that must be allocated and completed by the caller.  The caller must complete the
folllowing members of the structure:
.TP \w'\fId_mode\fR\(em'u
.I d_name
the name of the
.I STREAMS
driver.  Completing this member is mandatory.
.TP
.I d_flag
flags specifying additional characteristics of the
.I STREAMS
driver.
See
.BR cdevsw (9)
for format and options.
Completing this member is mandatory.
.TP
.I d_fop
the file operations used by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
Completing this member is mandatory.
.TP
.I d_mode
the device type and mode of the character device.
The format of this member is equivalent to the
.I st_mode
member as described in
.BR stat (2).
Completing this member is mandatory.
.TP
.I d_kmod
a pointer to the kernel module (typically
.BR THIS_MODULE )
whose reference count is to be incremented when the driver is opened or
.I STREAMS
subsystem resource allocations are made, and decremented when the driver is closed or
.I STREAMS
subsystem resources freed.
Completing this member is recommended.
.PP
.I major
is the external file system major device number to be assigned to the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.I major
can also be specified as zero
.RB ( 0 )
to indicate that
.BR register_cmajor ()
should instead assign an available character major device number.
.PP
.I fops
is a pointer to a file operations structure that provide entry points to the Stream head.
This is typically
.BR strm_f_ops ,
that is, the regular
.I STREAMS
Stream head file operations.
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
registers the
.B cdevsw (9)
referenced by
.IR cdev
with the
.BR specfs (5)
file system using
.BR register_strdrv (9),
if it has not already been so registered.
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
then allocates a
.BR devnode (9)
structure to represent the character major device node and populates it with values inherited from
.IR cdev .
The
.I n_major
member is set to the assigned
.I major
device number, and the
.I n_minor
member is set to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.BR register_cmajor ()
then calls the internal
.BR register_xinode ()
function to register an external inode with the
.B Linux
kernel using the kernel
.BR register_chrdev ()
function.  The name passed to the kernel function is
.IR cdev->d_name ,
the file operations are those specified by
.IR fops ,
and the major device number is passed directly from
.IR major .
.PP
Note that the file operations,
.IR fops ,
are the file operations that will be used by the
.B Linux
kernel when opening a character device node in an external filesystem and not the file operations
used internal to the
.BR specfs (5)
file system, nor directly the Stream head file operations.
.PP
Note that the major device number can be specified as zero
.RB ( 0 ),
in which case the major device number will be assigned to a free major device number by
.BR register_chrdev ()
and returned as a positive return value.  Any valid external major device number can be used for
.IR major .
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
can be called multiple times for the same registered
.BR cdevsw (9)
entry to register additional external major device numbers for the same entry.  On each call to
.BR register_cmajor ()
only one character major device number will be allocated.  If
.I major
is zero on each call, a new available major device number will be allocated on each call.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is probably not the function that your want.  See
.BR register_strdev (9).
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function that will not be called directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
The symbol is exported for the use of the
Stream head
.BR sth (4),
and Clone driver
.BR clone (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR register_cmajor ()
registers the
.I STREAMS
driver described by
.I cdev
and returns a positive number returning the specified or assigned character major device number.
Upon failure,
.BR register_cmajor ()
does not effect registration and returns a negative error number.
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is called when appropriate by
.BR register_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR register_cmajor ()
fails to register the specified
.I STREAMS
driver, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
memory for the required
.BR devnode (9)
structure could not be allocated.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
or
.I cdev->d_name
is
.BR NULL ;
or
.I cdev->d_name
is a zero-length string.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I major
does not contain zero
.RB ( 0 )
or a valid major device number.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure referenced by
.I cdev
has not previously been registered internal to the
.I STREAMS
subsystem.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
.I major
specifies a major device number against which a driver is already registered.
.PP
Also,
.BR register_cmajor ()
can return any of the error codes returned by the
.B Linux
kernel
.BR register_chrdev ()
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is intended to be called in a blockable process context during the loading of a
.I STREAMS
kernel module and as part of the intialization of that kernel module.  It may also be called at
blockable process context as part of a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is MP-safe when called from the proper context.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is a convenience function that simply registers
.I cdev
using
.BR register_strdrv (9),
allocates a
.BR devnode (9)
structure, populates it with the values from
.IR cdev ,
and then registers the major device number,
.IR major ,
with the
.B Linux
kernels by calling
.BR register_chrdev ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function that is not intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  This is certainly not the utility you need: see
.BR register_strdrv (9)
and
.BR register_strdev (9).
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_cmajor ()
when loading must acll
.BR unregister_cmajor (9)
before unloading.
.BR unregister_cmajor (9)
must be called with the same arguments with which
.BR register_cmajor ()
was called.
.PP
Major device nodes registered with
.BR register_cmajor ()
will appear as directories in the
.BR /dev/streams
directoy when the
.BR specfs (5)
file system has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
The directory will be named
.BI /dev/streams/ name\fR,
where
.RI \(lq name \(rq
is the
.I d_name
field of the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure referenced by
.IR cdev .
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
function that is provided by the
.BR specfs (5)
kernel module and used by the
.BR register_strdev (9)
function.
.PP
If you use
.BR register_cmajor ()
from outside of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package, your code may break on the next release.
Do no use
.BR register_cmajor ():
use
.BR register_strdrv (9)
or
.BR register_strdev (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR stat (2),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR register_strdrv (9),
.BR devnode (9),
.BR sth (4),
.BR clone (4),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.BR unregister_cmajor (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR register_cmajor ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function with support for the mountable
.BR specfs (5)
file system.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementations provide different mechanisms.
The
.BR strcompat (5)
package for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides additional mechanisms compatible with other implementations.
See also
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR register_cmajor ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
