'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmfree.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/12/06 09:39:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH RMFREE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmfree
\- free a number of units to a resource map
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/map.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void rmfree(struct map *" map ", long " size ", long " addr ");
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/map.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void rmfree(struct map *" map ", size_t " size ", unsigned long " index ");
.HP
.BI "void mfree(struct map *" map ", size_t " size ", unsigned long " index );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I map
a pointer to a
.B struct map
structure that was previously initialized by a call to
.BR rminit (9).
.TP
.I size
the number of units to allocate.
.TP
.I addr
the address at which to free the previously allocated space.
.TP
.I index
the index of the first unit of the allocated resource.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
frees
.I size
units to the given resource map,
.IR map .
In a map, the addresses are increasing, and the list is terminated by a zero
size.  The actual units managed by the map are arbitrary and can be map
registers, bytes, blocks, and so forth.
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
is used to free space previously allocated with
.BR rmalloc (9)
or
.BR rmalloc_wait (9).

.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
returs void.
.PP
When
.B _OSF_SOURCE
is defined,
.BR rmfree ()
accepts a
.B long
.I size
argument
and a
.B Long
.I addr
argument.
.PP
When
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or
.B _UW7_SOURCE
is defined
.BR rmfree ()
accepts a
.B size_t
.I size
argument
and a
.B ulong_t
.I index
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When 
.BR rmfree ()
fails it fails silently.
.BR rmfree ()
fails when the specified map overflows.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to
the passed in map structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR rmalloc (9),
.BR rmget (9),
.BR rminit (9),
.BR rmallocmap (9),
.BR rmallocmap_wait (9),
.BR rmfreemap (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
provide
.BR rmfree ().
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
do not document
.BR rmfree ().
.IR LiS
does not provide any of these functions.
.IP \(em
The
.IR AIX \(rg
PSE (Portable STREAMS Environment) does not support
.BR rmalloc (),
.BR rmalloc_wait (),
.BR rminit (9)
or
.BR rmfree (9).
On
.IR AIX \(rg
.BR rmalloc (),
and
.BR rmfree ()
are different functions that allocate and free \*(lqreal memory\*(rq rather than from a
\*(lqresource map\*(rq.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
provide a function prototype
taking a
.I size
argument of type
.BR size_t
and a
.I index
argument of type
.BR ulong_t .
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
provides a function prototype
.B long
taking a
.I size
argument of type
.BR long
and a
.I addr
argument of type
.BR long .
.IR UXP/V
does not document the function prototype.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmfree ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
