'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmget.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-28 12:53:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: rmget.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-28 12:53:55  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH RMGET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmget
\- allocate a number of units from a resource map
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/map.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int rmget(struct map *" map ", long " size ", long " addr ");
.sp 2
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/map.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int rmget(struct map *" map ", size_t " size ", unsigned long " index ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I map
a pointer to a
.B struct map
structure that was previously initialized by a call to
.BR rminit (9).
.TP
.I size
the number of units to allocate.
.TP
.I addr
the address at which to allocate the space.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR rmget ()
allocates
.I size
units from the given resource map,
.IR map ,
at the address
.IR addr .
In a map, the addresses are increasing, and the list is terminated by a zero
size.  The actual units managed by the map are arbitrary and can be map
registers, bytes, blocks, and so forth.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR rmget ()
suceeds, it returns the base of the allocated space; when it fails, it returns
zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When 
.BR rmget ()
fails it returns zero (0).
.BR rmget ()
fails when it cannot immediately allocate the requested resource.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmget ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmget ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to
the passed in map structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR rmget ()
is an
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function.
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI header files to expose this symbol.
Also,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must have been compiled with configuration flag
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules do not call this function.  Use
.BR rmalloc (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR rmalloc (9),
.BR rmalloc_wait (9),
.BR rmfree (9),
.BR rminit (9),
.BR rmallocmap (9),
.BR rmallocmap_wait (9),
.BR rmfreemap (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Although
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
specifies a function prototype for
.BR rmget ()
returning
.BR int ,
the returned value is an address.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmget ()
are source-level compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR rmget ()
is a
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Use
.BR rmalloc (9)
instead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmget ()
appears in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
