'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmvb.9.man,v 0.9.2.15 2005/04/28 01:25:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/28 01:25:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH RMVB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmvb
\- remove a message block from a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *rmvb(mblk_t *" mp ", mblk_t *" bp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
the message from which to remove the message block.
.PD 0
.TP
.I bp
the message block to remove from the message.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Removes the message block pointed to by
.I bp
from the message pointed to by
.I mp
and returns the pointer to the (new) first message block in the message.
If the block pointer,
.IR bp ,
points to the only message block that existed in the message,
.IR mp ,
whe
.BR rmvb ()
was called, then
.BR rmvb ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
removes the message block
.I bp
from the message
.IR mp ,
but does not free the message block
.IR bp .
.IR bp 's
.I b_cont
pointer is set to
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR rmvb ()
returns a pointer to the modified message.
The modified message may be
.B NULL
(if the removed block was the only block in the message).
Upon failure,
.BR rmvb ()
returns
.BR "(mblk_t *)(-1)" .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR rmvb ()
fails it returns
.BR "(mblk_t *)(-1)" .
.BR rmvb ()
only fails if
.I bp
was not in the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
is MP-safe; however, it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure
exclusive access to the passed in message
.I mp
and message block
.IR dp .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR linkb (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR freeb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following protability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR rmvb ()
is not bug for bug compatible with
.IR LiS .
.IP ""
When
.IR mp " and " bp
are
.BR NULL ,
.BR rmvb ()
correctly returns
.BI "(mblk_t *)(" -1 )\fR.
Under LiS
.BR rmvb ()
will return
.B NULL
in the same situation.  This is an LiS bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass
.B NULL
pointers to
.BR rmvb ().
.IP \(em
.BR rmvb ()
sets the block pointer's continuation pointer,
.IR bp->b_cont ,
to
.BR NULL .
No other implementation documents this behaviour.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not rely upon
.BR rmvb ()
setting the removed block's continuation pointer,
.I bp->b_cont
to
.BR NULL .
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_rmvb ()
is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR liscompat (9).
.BR lis_rmvb ()
calls
.BR rmvb ()
directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
