'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmvq.9.man,v 0.9.2.27 2006/04/05 09:44:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: rmvq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.27  2006/04/05 09:44:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH RMVQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmvq
\- remove a message from a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void rmvq(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue from which to remove the message.
.PD 0
.TP
.I mp
the message to remove from the queue.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
removes the message pointed to by
.I mp
from the queue pointed to by
.IR q .
The message can be removed from the middle of the queue and does not need to
be at the head or tail of the queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following rules govern the usage of the
.BR rmvq (9)
utility:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.BR rmvq (9),
must not be passed a queue pointer that was not frozen by the caller with a previous call to
.BR freezstr (9).
.IP \(bu
.BR rmvq (9),
can be passed any queue pointer previously frozen by the caller with a call to
.BR freezestr (9),
regardless of the context of the call.
.PP
The above rules allow
.BR rmvq (9)
to be called on any queue properly frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.PP
The Stream containing
.I q
should be frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9).
If the Strem is not frozen,
.BR rmgq ()
must be called from a
.I STREAMS
synchronous context (i.e.,
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9)),
for an intermediate module, however, it may be called from an asynchronous context for a Stream end
(i.e., no
.I q->q_next
pointer).
See
.BR qbackenable (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access
to the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp .
.PP
One way to ensure exclusive access to the message pointer prior to the call is to freeze the state
of the queue before the reference to
.I mp
is acquired.  This can be accomplished by using
.BR freezestr (9)
for the queue, priori to acquiring
.IR mp .
.PP
Another way to ensure exclusive access to the message pointer prior to the call is to create a
situation whereby the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure cannot run.  This is the state of affairs when the
calling process has frozen the entire stream with a function such as
.BR qwriter (9),
or simply the queue with a function such as
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
uses a
.BR queue (9)
structure pointer in the
.BR msgb (9)
structure to determine to which queue (if any)
.I mp
belongs.  This increases the performance of the
.BR rmvq ()
function dramatically.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR rmvq ()
is always successful.
.IP ""
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR rmvq ()
silently fails if
the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.I q
is closing;
.I q
has
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9));
the message pointed to by
.I mp
does not exist on the queue
.IR q .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not pass
.B NULL
or invalid pointers to
.BR rmvq ().
.IP \(em
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
maintains a queue pointer within the
.BR msgb (9)
structure.  This permits immediate determination of whether the passed in
message pointer,
.IR mp ,
is a member of the queue,
.IR q .
It even permits ignoring the passed in
.I q
pointer.
.IP ""
.I LiS
does not maintain a pointer in the
.BR msgb (9)
structure to the queue to which a given message currently belongs.  This means
that
.I LiS
must search the queue pointed to by
.I q
for the message pointed to by
.I mp
using a linear search.  This is inefficient if
.BR rmvq ()
is called often by a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver or module (which it is by the Stream head).
.IP \(em
.BR rmvq ()
does not panic if the message pointer,
.IR mp ,
points to a message not on queue,
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR IRIX \(rg
documents that if the message pointer,
.IR mp ,
does not point to an existing message on queue,
.IR q ,
that the system could panic.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not pass a message,
.IR mp ,
to
.BR rmvq ()
that is not on the passed in queue,
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR rmvq ().
.[
uw7spg
.]
.[
suxspg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will freeze the stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
before calling
.BR rmvq ().
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR rmvq ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
also lists
.BR rmvq ()
as a utility that cannot be called from user functions or
.RI non- STREAMS
code; that is, contexts asynchronous to the Stream containing
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
compatible drivers and modules will not call
.BR rmvq ()
from outside of a
.BR qinit (9)
routine for the queue pair of
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.BR rmvq ()
cannot be called from an interrupt service routine.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
does not permit
.BR rmvq ()
to be called from an interrupt service routine context to remove the need for suppressing
local interrupts throughout the
.I STREAMS
executive.  The only queue procedure that
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits to be called from an interrupt service routine context is
.BR put (9),
and that function defers until the next
.BR runqueues (9)
pass.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call
.BR rmvq ()
from any context outside a
.I STREAMS
queue procedure or callback function.  At the Stream end (Stream head or driver), from a context
other than a
.I STREAMS
coroutine, only
.BR put (9)
will be used by a portable
.I STREAMS
driver or module.
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_rmvq ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_rmvq ()
.\"simply calls
.\".BR rmvq ().
.IP \(em
All versions of
.I LiS
contain the bug that they keep track of message queue counts,
.IR q_count ,
.IR qb_count ,
in terms of the sum of the absolute sizes of the data buffers referenced by message blocks,
.RB ( "db_lim - db_base" ),
and not the sizes of the message blocks themselves,
.RB ( "b_wptr - b_rptr" ),
which does not conform to
.IR "SVR 4.2 STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
See
.BR msgsize (9).
No other implementation has this bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs, drivers and modules will use
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
