'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: setq.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2008-04-28 12:53:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: setq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.18  2008-04-28 12:53:55  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.17  2006/04/05 09:44:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SETQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B setq
\- set sizes and procedures associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void setq(queue_t *" q ", struct qinit *" rinit ", struct qinit *" winit );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to set sizes and procedures;
.PD 0
.TP
.I rinit
the read-side
.BR qinit (9)
structure; and,
.TP
.I winit
the write-wide
.BR qinit (9)
structure.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR setq ()
sets the queue parameters for the read and write queues of the queue pair
indicated by the read queue pointer,
.IR q ,
to the read initialization information specified by
.IR rinit ,
and the write initialization information specified by
.IR winit .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR setq ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR setq ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR setq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR setq ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access
to the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR setq ()
is used internally by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler when creating a new queue pair for a driver or module to set the
parameters associated with each queue in the queue pair from the driver or
module
.BR streamtab .
It is also used by the
.I STREAMS
stream head when linking streams under a multiplexing driver to set the lower
multiplexer queue parameters against the stream head queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qinit (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR setq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_setq ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_setq ()
.\"simply calls
.\".BR setq ().
.\".IP \(em
.\"Note that
.\".BR lis_setq ()
.\"was deprecated as of
.\".IR "LiS 2.18.0" .
.\"See
.\".BR lisdeprec (9)
.\"for more information.
.\".IP \(em
This function is not exported by
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
or
.IR Solaris \(rg.

.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR setq ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR setq ()
function of
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR setq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
