'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: setsq.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/11/26 11:17:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/26 11:17:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SETSQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B setsq
\- set synchronization queues, sizes and procedures associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int setsq(queue_t *" q ", struct fmodsw *" fmod ", int " mux );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to set sizes and procedures.
.TP
.I fmodsw
a pointer to the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure associated with the driver or module.
.TP
.I mux
an integer that, when non-zero, indicates to use the lower multiplexer
.BR qinit (9)
structures for initialization rather than the upper
.BR qinit (9)
structures in the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR setsq ()
establishes syncrhonization queues and sets the queue parameters for the read and write queues of
the queue pair indicated by the read queue pointer,
.IR q ,
to the read and write side initialization information from the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure,
.IR fmodsw ,
for the module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.BR setsq ()
first removes any current syncrhonization queues associated with queue,
.IR q .
When passed a
.B NULL
.I fmodsw
pointer and a
.RB non- NULL
.I q
pointer,
.BR setsq ()
will simply remove any syncrhonization queues currently attached to the queue,
.IR q .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR setsq ()
returns zero (0) and sets the appropriate synchornization queues, sizes and procedures.  Upon
failure,
.BR setsq ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR setsq ()
fails, it returns a negative error number.
.BR setsq ()
can fail under the following conditions:
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Normally
.BR setsq ()
will block awaiting the availability of kernel memory for the allocation of synchronization queue,
.BR syncq (9),
structures; however, under exceptional circumstances that allocation might fail.  In that event,
.BR setsq ()
fails and returns negative
.RB [ ENOMEM ].
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR setsq ()
can be called from any blocking context, including user context,
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures, and
some uppermost
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR setsq ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access
to the queue pair.  A reference on both the
.BR queue (9)
and
.BR fmodsw (9)
structures should be held across the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR setsq ()
is used internally by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler when creating a new queue pair for a driver or module to set the synchronization queues
and parameters associated with each queue in the queue pair from the driver or module
.BR streamtab .
It is also used by the
.I STREAMS
stream head when linking streams under a multiplexing driver to set the lower multiplexer queue
parameters against the stream head queue pair.
.PP
.BR setsq ()
calls
.BR setq (9)
internally.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR setq (9),
.BR qinit (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR setsq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is not exported by SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI or
.IR Solaris \(rg.

.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR setsq ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
