'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SLEEP_ALLOC.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/04/17 18:52:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 18:52:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SLEEP_ALLOC 9 "$Date: 2004/04/17 18:52:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS SVR4 DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SLEEP_ALLOC
\- allocate and initialize a sleep lock
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/kmem.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ksynch.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "sleep_t *SLEEP_ALLOC(int " arg ", lkinfo_t *" lkinfop ", int " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'priority\(em'u
.I arg
Reserved for future use: must be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I lkinfop
A pointer to a
.B lkinfo
structure.  The
.I lk_name
member of the
.B lkinfo
structure points to a character string name that will be used to collect
statistics.
.TP
.I flag
A memory allocation flag for
.BR kmem_alloc (9).
The flag can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'KM_NOSLEEP\(em'u
.B KM_SLEEP
The caller can sleep awaiting the allocation.
.PD 0
.TP
.B KM_NOSLEEP
The caller cannot sleep awaiting the allocation.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC (9),
.BR SLEEP_DEALLOC (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCK (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCKOWNED (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCK_SIG (9),
.BR SLEEP_TRYLOCK (9)
and
.BR SLEEP_UNLOCK (9),
are a set of primitive functions for allocating, deallocating, initializing,
acquiring, releasing and testing sleep locks of type
.BR sleep_t .
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC (9)
dynamically allocates and initializes a sleep lock.  The sleep lock is
returned in the unlocked state.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to a newly allocated and initialized (unlocked)
.B sleep_t
structure;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
fails when 
.I flag
is set to
.B KM_NOSLEEP
and sufficient memory is not immediately available to allocate the necessary
data structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
can be called from any context with
.I flag
.BR KM_NOSLEEP .
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
can only be called from user context with
.I flag
.BR KM_SLEEP .
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
defined.
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
does not perform any of the naming or statistics gathering functions described
in the
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
documentation.  Both the
.I arg
and
.I lkinfop
arguments are ignored.  Only the
.I flag
argument is honoured.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
is implemented
by calling
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
to allocate, and
.BR init_MUTEX (9)
to initialize,
the
.B sleep_t
data structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR kmem_alloc (9),
.BR init_MUTEX (9),
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC (9),
.BR SLEEP_DEALLOC (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCK (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCKOWNED (9),
.BR SLEEP_LOCK_SIG (9),
.BR SLEEP_TRYLOCK (9),
.BR SLEEP_UNLOCK (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
ignores the
.I arg
argument in accordance with
.I SVR 4.2
documentation.
.IP \(em
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
does not perform any of the naming or statistics gathering functions described
in the
.I SVR 4.2
documentation, and the
.I lkinfop
argument is ignored.
.IP \(em
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

