'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: streamtab.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2006/04/05 09:44:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: streamtab.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/04/05 09:44:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STREAMTAB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B streamtab
\- \fISTREAMS\fR module definition structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
.B #include <sys/stream.h>

struct streamtab {
    struct qinit *st_rdinit;    /* rd queue init */
    struct qinit *st_wrinit;    /* wr queue init */
    struct qinit *st_muxrinit;  /* mux lower rd queue init */
    struct qinit *st_muxwinit;  /* mux lower wr queue init */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'st_muxwinit\(em'u
.I st_rdinit
read-side initialization structure.
.PD 0
.TP
.I st_wrinit
write-side initialization structure.
.TP
.I st_muxrinit
lower multiplex read-side initialization structure.
.TP
.I st_muxwinit
lower multiplex write-side initialization structure.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure, defined in
.RB < sys/stream.h >,
is the principal structure used to define a
.I STREAMS
driver or module.  A reference to the
.B streamtab
structure is a unique reference to the driver or module.
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure and associated
.BR qinit (9),
.BR module_info (9),
and
.BR module_stat (9),
structures, provide the complete definition for a
.I STREAMS
driver or module.
.PP
All modules only specify the first two members
.RI ( st_rdinit
and
.IR st_wrinit )
of the structure and leave the remaining two
.BR NULL .
(The remaining two are ignored by
.I STREAMS
for modules, regardless of their values.)
These two
.BR qinit (9)
structures are used to initialize the
.BR queue (9)
structures in the queue pair when an instance of the module is created with the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
command to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.PP
A
.I STREAMS
driver without a lower multiplex specification also only specifies the first two members in the same
manner as a module.  The first two
.BR qinit (9)
structures are used by
.I STREAMS
to initialize the
.BR queue (9)
strucutures in the queue pair when an instance of the driver is created using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
Drivers not supporting a lower multiplex (that is, drivers that do not support the
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
operations) must specify
.B NULL
for the last two members
.RI ( st_muxrinit
and
.IR st_muxwinit )
of the structure.
.PP
A multiplexing
.I STREAMS
driver can have both an upper-multiplex specification that is used for Streams that are created
using the
.BR open (2s)
system call, as well as a lower-multiplex specification that is used for Streams that are
linked under the multiplexing driver using the
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
commands to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
Multiplexing drivers supporting the linking of Streams to a lower multiplex must specify
.BR qinit (9)
structures for the
.I st_muxrinit
and
.I st_muxwinit
members.
These
.BR qinit (9)
structures will be used to reinitialize the
.BR queue (9)
structures in the queue pair formerly associated with the Stream head of the linked Stream during
the
.BR I_LINK (9)
or
.BR I_PLINK (9)
operation.
.PP
Once defined, the
.B streamtab
structure must be registered with the
.I STREAMS
subsystem for the driver or module to be available for use in the
.BR GNU/Linux
system.  Registration can be effected using
.BR register_strmod (9),
for a module;
and,
.BR register_strdev (9),
for a device or pseudo-device driver.
.PP
Once registered, the
.B streamtab
structure is used by
.I STREAMS
when created an instance of a driver or module, also when linking a Stream beneath a multiplexing
driver.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.I STREAMS
creates an instance of a driver (as a result of a call to
.BR open (2s)),
by first creating and initializing the Stream head queue pair.  Next the driver (Stream end)
queue pair is created and initialized using the
.I st_rdinit
and
.I st_wrinit
initialization structures and the queue pair is attached beneath the Stream head with
.BR qattach (9).
.IP \(bu
.I STREAMS
creates an instance of a module (as a result of a call to
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
command), by creating and initializing a queue pair from the
.I st_rdinit
and
.I st_wrinit
initialization structure.  The queue pair is then inserted beneath the Stream head with
.BR qattach (9).
.IP \(bu
.I STREAMS
links a Stream under a multiplexing driver (as a result of a call to
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
command), by reinitializing the Stream head queue pair of the linked Stream from the
.I st_muxrinit
and
.I st_muxwinit
initialization structures.
.PP
See
.BR qinit (9)
and
.BR queue (9)
for details.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure is statically allocated and associated with statically allocated
.BR qinit (9)
structures to define a
.I STREAMS
driver or module.
.PP
Once the
.B streamtab
has been registered with the
.I STREAMS
subsystem, using a registration function such as
.BR register_strmod (9)
or
.BR register_strdev (9),
all fields in the structure must be treated as read-only by a driver or module.  The following
guidelines pertain to the use of the fields in the
.B streamtab
structure:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Function pointers
.IR st_rdinit ,
.IR st_wrinit ,
.IR st_muxrinit ,
and
.IR st_muxwinit ,
must not be altered after the
.B streamtab
structure has been registered, and before it is unregistered.
.IP \(bu
The members of the structure may be read by a driver or module to locate the attached
.BR qinit (9)
structures when there exists no
.BR queue (9)
structure reference that can be used to locate them.
For rules for accessing the members of the
.BR qinit (9)
structure, see
.BR qinit (9).
.IP \(bu
When the
.B streamtab
structure is contained within a loadable kernel module, and the
.I STREAMS
subsystem holds a reference to the
.B streamtab
structure,  the loadable kernel module must not be unloaded from the system.  The registration
functions provide a mechanism for ensuring this.  See
.BR register_strmod (9)
and
.BR register_strdev (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure can be read from any context.  Members of the
.B streamtab
structure should only be modified before registration or after de-registration of the structure with
the
.I STREAMS
subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Since the
.B streamtab
structure must be treated as read-only, and provisions are made to disable module unloaded when
a reference to the structure exists, functions that properly access the structure are MP-safe by
definition.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR qinit (9)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qinit (9),
.BR register_strmod (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR fmodsw (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP EFT" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B streamtab
structure is compatible across all
.I STREAMS
implementations.  There are no portability issues.
.IP ""
On the other hand, mechanisms for registering the
.B streamtab
structure with the
.I STREAMS
implementation vary widely from implementation to implementation.  See
.BR register_strmod (9)
and
.BR register_strdev (9)
for more information.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B streamtab
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
