'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: Strinfo.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 12:53:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: Strinfo.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 12:53:47  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/07 10:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass check target
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.TH STRINFO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B Strinfo
\- STREAMS information structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B Strinfo
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2\
enum {
    DYN_STREAM,                /* struct shinfo */
    DYN_QUEUE,                 /* struct queinfo */
    DYN_MSGBLOCK,              /* struct mbinfo */
    DYN_MDBBLOCK,              /* struct dbinfo */
    DYN_LINKBLK,               /* struct linkinfo */
    DYN_STREVENT,              /* struct seinfo */
    DYN_QBAND,                 /* struct bandinfo */
    DYN_STRAPUSH,              /* struct apinfo */
    DYN_DEVINFO,               /* struct devinfo */
    DYN_MODINFO,               /* struct mdlinfo */
#if defined CONFIG_STREAMS_SYNCQS
    DYN_SYNCQ,                 /* struct syncq */
#endif
    DYN_SIZE,                  /* size */
};

struct strinfo {
    kmem_cachep_t si_cache;    /* memory cache */
    rwlock_t si_rwlock;        /* lock for these entries */
    atomic_t si_cnt;           /* count of entries in the list */
    int si_hwl;                /* high water level for entries */
#if defined CONFIG_STREAMS_DEBUG || defined CONFIG_STREAMS_MNTSPECFS
    struct list_head si_head;  /* entries in list */
#endif
} Strinfo[DYN_SIZE] ____cacheline_aligned;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B strinfo
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fBDEV_STRAPUSH\fP\(em'u
.I si_cache
a pointer to the
.B Linux
memory cache which is used for the element specific structure.
.TP
.I si_rwlock
a reader-writer lock for the structure
.TP
.I si_cnt
a count of the number of obects currently allocated from the memory cache.
.TP
.I si_hwl
a high water mark containing the maximum number of objects that were allocated from the memory
cache.
.TP
.I si_head
when debugging, a point to the head of a list linking all of the allocated objects of this type.
.PP
The
.B Strinfo
array, of size,
.BR DYN_SIZE ,
contains the following structure elements:
.TP \w'\fBDEV_STRAPUSH\fP\(em'u
.B DYN_STREAM
Allocated objects of type
.BR shinfo (9),
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR stdata (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_QUEUE
Allocated objects of type
.BR queinfo (9),
which is an implementation structure containing paired
.BR queue (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_MSGBLOCK
Allocated objects of type
.BR mbinfo (9)
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR mblk_t (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_MDBBLOCK
Allocated objects of type
.BR mdbblock (9)
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR mblk_t (9),
.BR dblk_t (9)
structures and a fast buffer.
.TP
.B DYN_LINKBLK
Allocated objects of type
.BR linkinfo (9)
which is an implementation structure contianing
.BR linkblk (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_STREVENT
Allocated objects of type
.BR seinfo (9)
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR strevent (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_QBAND
Allocated objects of type
.BR bandinfo (9)
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR qband (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_STRAPUSH
Allocated objects of type
.BR apinfo (9)
which is an implementation structure containing
.BR strapush (9)
structures.
.TP
.B DYN_DEVINFO
Allocated objects of type
.BR devinfo (9).
.TP
.B DYN_MODINFO
Allocated objects of type
.BR modinfo (9).
.TP
.B DYN_SYNCQ
Allocated objects of type
.BR syncq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B Strinfo
structure is a structure used internal to the
.I STREAMS
scheduler that is used to store information abotu allocated structures within the
.I STREAMS
executive.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.I STREAMS
kernel threads run at process context within the kernel.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B Strinfo
array is global to all CPUs and requires protection.
This is an internal scheduler structure and should not be manipulated directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B Strinfo
structures are not intended to be used directly by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  It is only intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
utility and configuration drivers such as the
.BR sc (4)
module and
.BR sad (4)
driver.
.PP
Manipulating
.B Strinfo
structures without using
.I STREAMS
utility functions intended to do so, will likely cause panics and crash the system.  Use proper
.I STREAMS
utility functions instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sc (4),
.BR sad (4).
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B Strinfo
contains information that was allocated statically within the kernel in accordance with the
descriptions for
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4spg
.]
in the MG.
.[
magic
.]
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.B Strinfo
structure is consistent with the description of internal static variables associated with the
.I STREAMS
scheduler function of
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B Strinfo
first appears in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Some of the members appeared as static variables in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
