'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocindent nosmartindent noautoindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strlog.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2005/07/12 14:06:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/12 14:06:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strlog, vstrlog, vstrlog_hook
\- pass a message to the \fISTREAMS\fR logger
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strlog.h>
.HP
int \fBstrlog\fR(short \fImid\fR, short \fIsid\fR, char \fIlevel\fR, unsigned short \fIflags\fR, char *\fIfmt\fR, \fI...\fR);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBtypedef\fR int (*\fBvstrlog_t\fR)(short, short, char, unsigned short, char *, va_list);
.HP
vstrlog_t vstrlog;
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mid
specifies the
.I STREAMS
module id
.PD 0
.TP
.I sid
specifies the
.I STREAMS
minor device number associated with the module.
.TP
.I level
specifies a priority level.
.TP
.I flags
log flags specifying the severity and options associated with the
.I STREAMS
log.
.TP
.I fmt
provides the
.BR printf (3)
style format string.
.TP
.I ...
provides the arguments for the
.BR printf (3)
style format string.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strlog ()
passes a 
.I STREAMS
log message to the
.I STREAMS
logger.
.PP
.BR vstrlog ()
is a
.B va_list
version of
.BR strlog ().
.PP
.I mid
identifies the
.I STREAMS
module id associated with the
.I STREAMS
driver or module generating the log.
.I sid
is the minor device node within the
.I STREAMS
driver or module
to which the log applies.
.I level
indicates the priority level of the log message with respect to other log
messages in the same class.
.I flags
can contain a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.TP \w'SL_NOPUTBUF\(em'u
.B SL_FATAL
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_CRIT .
.PD 0
.TP
.B SL_ERROR
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_ERR .
.TP
.B SL_WARN
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_WARNING .
.TP
.B SL_NOTE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_NOTICE .
.TP
.B SL_CONSOLE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_INFO .
.TP
.B SL_TRACE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of 
.BR LOG_DEBUG .
.TP
.B SL_NOTIFY
indicates that a copy of the log should be mailed to the system administrator.
.TP
.B SL_NOPUTBUF
indicates that the log should not be buffered.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR strlog ()
dispatches the log to the logger and returns one (1).
Upon failure,
.BR strlog ()
returns zero (0).
.BR strlog ()
fails whenever the message is not seen by all the readers.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strlog ()
fails, it returns zero (0).
.BR strlog ()
fails when it cannot dispatch the log message to the logger.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strlog ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is MP-safe, however it takes global spin locks and suppresses interrupts to
accomplish this.
See
.IR \*(lqCOMPATIBILITY\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR strlog ()
always logs with
.BR syslog (3)
.I facility
of
.BR LOG_KERN .
.PP
.BR strlog ()
prefixes the string:
.BI \*(lqstrlog( xxx )[ yyy , zzz "]: \*(rq"
onto the beginning of log messages, where:
.I xxx
is the
.I level
argument,
.I yyy
is the
.I mid
argument, and
.I zzz
is the
.I sid
argument.
.PP
As
.B Linux
does not have a
.I STREAMS
logger, the BSD
.BR syslog (8)
facilities apply.
.PP
.BR strlog ()
always returns success.
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
has a partial implementation of a full
.I STREAMS
logger waiting in the wings.  This full
.I STREAMS
logger will function an filter properly.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR printf (3),
.BR syslogd (2),
.BR syslogd (3),
.BR syslogd (8),
.BR printk (9),
.BR cmn_err (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B SL_NOTIFY
and
.B SL_NOPUTBUF
flags do not function as described.
See
.IR \*(lqCOMPATIBILITY\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strlog ()
supports all
.BR printf (3)
conversion specifiers in the format string.
.IR AIX \(rg
states that conversion specifiers
.IR %s ", " %f ", " %e ", " %E ", " %g " and " %G
are not handled in the format string.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg
states that conversion specifiers
.IR %x ", " %l ", " %o ", " %u ", " %d ", " %c " and " %s
are handled in the format string.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR IRIX \(rg
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
state that conversion specifiers
.IR %s ", " %e ", " %g " and " %G
are not allowed in the format string.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
states that conversion specifiers
.IR %s ", " %e ", " %E ", " %g " and " %G
are not handled in the format string in the log(7) manual page, but states that
.IR %e ", " %g " and " %G
are not allowed, but
.I %s
is supported in the strlog(9F) manual page.
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
states that conversion specifiers
.IR %s ", " %e ", " %g " and " %G
are not handled in the format string in the log(7) manual page, but states that
.IR %s ", " %e ", " %E ", " %g " and " %G
are not handled in the format string in the strlog(D3str) manual page.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg
states that conversion specifiers
.IR %s ", " %e ", " %E ", " %g " and " %G
are not handled in the format string.
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use
.IR %s ", " %f ", " %e ", " %E ", " %g " or " %G
conversion specifiers in the format string.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
states that no more than
.B NLOGARGS
arguments can be passed, and that
.B NLOGARGS
defaults to four (4).
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
state that no more than
.B NLOGARGS
arguments can be passed, and that
.B NLOGARGS
defaults to three (3).
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg
states that no more than
.B NLOGARGS
argumnets can be passed, but does not state a default for
.BR NLOGARGS .
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will pass more than
.B NLOGARGS
arguments to
.BR strlog (),
and will not expect a
.B NLOGARGS
value of greater than three (3).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document the
.B SL_NOPUTBUF
flag.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
The
.B SL_NOPUTBUF
flag is provided for
.IR UnixWare \(rg
source compatibility.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.BR strlog ()
ignores this flag.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use the
.B SL_NOPUBUF
flag.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
does not document the
.BR SL_FATAL ", " SL_WARN ", " SL_NOTE ", " SL_NOTIFY " or " SL_NOPUTBUF
flags.
.IP \(em
The
.B SL_NOTIFY
flags is supposed to send a copy of the log to the system administrator.  As
.B Linux
does not actually have a
.I STREAMS
based logger (although it does use
.IR \*(lq/dev/log\*(rq )
the
.BR syslogd (8)
facilities under
.B Linux
should be used instead.
Therefore,
.BR strlog ()
ignores this flag.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will consider that additional configuration may be necessary for messages logged
with the
.B SL_NOTIFY
flag to the system administrator.
.IP \(em
.BR strlog ()
takes a global spin lock to protect generation of the log buffer and
.BR printk (9)
does the same.
Under
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
.BR strlog ()
does not take global locks and can be executed concurrently.  This is one
thing that normally distinguishes
.BR strlog ()
from
.BR cmn_err (9).
.IP ""
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
has a partial implementation of a full
.I STREAMS
logger.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not provide this function.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strlog ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
