'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strmod_add.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2004/04/19 02:58:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRMOD_ADD 9 "$Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:21 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strmod_add
\- add a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
dev_t \fBstrmod_add\fR(dev_t \fIdev\fR, struct streamtab *\fIst\fR, struct streamadm *\fIsa\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dev
The external device number to use when adding a driver.  If
.B NODEV
is used, the first available slot is used.  This parameter is ignored for
modules.
.TP
.I st
A pointer to the
.B streamtab
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
module.  This structure is statically allocated by the driver or module.
.[
svr3
.]
.TP
.I sa
A pointer to the
.B streamadm
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
module.  This structure does not have to be statically allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is used to configure
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers into the kernel.  It allows
.I STREAMS
drivers to add entry points in character device switch tables.  Modules are
added to the
.I STREAMS
module switch.
.PP
When adding a driver only,
.BR strmod_add ()
takes a device number, which is used to determine the device switch slot for
the entry points.  A
.I STREAMS
driver can supply
.B NODEV
insead of a device number.  In this case,
.BR strmod_add ()
finds the first available device switch slot and returns the number actually
used.  If a device switch lot is already in use or if there are not slots
available,
.B NODEV
is returned.
.PP
.I st
is a pointer to a traditional
.[
svr3
.]
.B streamtab
structure.  The structure contains pointers to entry points for the module's
read and write queue routines.
.PP
.I sa
points to a
.B streamadm
structure providing additional information that is required under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.SS CONFIGURATION
.PP
The
.B streamadm
structure defines additional configuration information for
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
uses this structure in addition to the traditional
.B streamtab
structure when configuring a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
struct streamadm {
    uint sa_version;
    uint sa_flags;
    char sa_name[FMNAMESZ + 1];
    caddr_t sa_ttys;
    uint sa_sync_level;
    caddr_t sa_sync_info;
};
\s+1\fR
.fi
.TP
.B sa_version
Version of the
.B streamadm
structure.
This field is for forward and backward compatibility.
.IP ""
This field is ignored by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.TP
.B sa_flags
Flags specifying additional characteristics of the module or driver being
added.  The flags are a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
The
.I STREAMS
module being registered is a device driver.  For drivers, the
.I dev
argument to
.BR strmod_add ()
and the return value
are significant.
One, and only one, of
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
or
.B STR_IS_MODULE
can be specified.
.TP
.B STR_IS_MODULE
The
.I STREAMS
module being registered is a pushable module.  For pushable modules, the
.I dev
argument to
.BR strmod_add ()
and the return value
are ignored.
One, and only one, of
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
or
.B STR_IS_MODULE
can be specified.
.TP
.B STR_SYSV4_OPEN
The
.I STREAMS
module or driver being registered follows
.I SVR 4
.BR qopen (9)
semantics.  If this flag is not set, the
module or driver obeys
.I SVR 3
.BR qopen (9)
semantics.
.TP
.B STR_QSAFETY
When this flag is set, it indicates that the module or driver requires
interrupt-safe callback functions.  Setting this flag causes the
.I STREAMS
executive to suppress interrupts while executing all asynchronous callback
functions.
.RE
.TP
.B sa_name
The unique name of the module or driver.  Modules and drivers share a common
name space.  The maximum length for a name is set by
.BR FMNAMESZ ,
which is typically set to eight (8) characters.
.IP ""
This name is used to register character devices for device drivers, and is the
name that must be used as the argument of an
.B I_PUSH
IO control
.RB (see streamio (7))
for a pushable module.  It is also used as the name for verification of module
presence for both modules and drivers with the
.BR sad (4)
driver and the
.BR autopush (8)
utility.
.TP
.B sa_ttys
A pointer to the
.BR ttys ()
routine that wil be used by the module or driver.  When the module or driver
is added with
.BR strmod_add (),
this pointer will be placed in the
.I d_ttys
field in the
.B cdevsw
structure.  If the driver is not a
.BR tty ,
this field is set to
.BR NULL .
.IP ""
This field is ignored by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.TP
.B sa_sync_level
This field specifies the synchronization level to be used with the module or
drivers.  The syncrhonization level specifies the number of concurrent thread
of execution that can be within a scope.
For additional information concerning the synchornization of
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, see
.BR mt-streams (9).
The scope can be specified at one of
a number of levels as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
Default level synchronization.
.IP ""
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
specifies
.[
osfspg
.]
that the default level is the same as
.BR SQLVL_GLOBAL ,
below.
.TP
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
Global level syncrhonization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
Arbitrary level sychronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_MODULE
Module level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
Queue pair level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
Queue level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_NOP
No synchronization.
.IP ""
This level is not provided by
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfspg
.]
.RE
.TP
.B sa_sync_info
A pointer to synchronization data.  This field is relevant only if
.I sa_sync_level
is set to
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
and specifies the arbitrary scope of synchronization.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR strmod_add ()
succeeds, it returns 
.BR DDI_SUCCESS ;
when it fails, it returns
.BR DDI_FAILURE .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
fails when 
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
can be called from
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The device number can be constructed from the major number with
.BR makedevice (9).
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is a
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function:
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qopen (9),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush (8),
.BR mt-streams (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strmod_add ()
ignores the
.I sa_version
field of the
.B streamadm
structure, unlike
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
ignores the
.I sa_ttys
field of the
.B streamadm
structure, unlike
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
Specifying
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
in the
.I sa_sync_level
field of the
.B streamadm
structure is equivalent to
.B SQLVL_MODULE
instead of
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
as specified in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
recognizes the
.B SQLVL_NOP
setting in the
.I sa_sync_level
field, whereas,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
does not document this level.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
drivers to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR strmod_add ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
