'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: stroptions.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 12:53:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: stroptions.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 12:53:56  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/10/05 12:17:19  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STROPTIONS 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B stroptions
\- \fISTREAMS\fR stream head options structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct stroptions {
    uint so_flags;              /* options to set */
    short so_readopt;           /* read option */
    ushort so_wroff;            /* write offset */
    ssize_t so_minpsz;          /* minimum read packet size */
    ssize_t so_maxpsz;          /* maximum read packet size */
    size_t so_hiwat;            /* read queue hi water mark */
    size_t so_lowat;            /* read queue lo water mark */
    unsigned char so_band;      /* band for water marks */
    unsigned char so_filler[3]; /* padding */
    ushort so_erropt;           /* Solaris */
    ssize_t so_maxblk;          /* Solaris */
    ushort so_copyopt;          /* Solaris */
    ushort so_wrpad;            /* write (tail) padding */
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following members correspond to
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT"
members:
.TP \w'\fIso_readopt\fR\(em'u
.I so_flags
A flags filed indicating the interpretation of the other members in the
structure as well a providing some boolean flags.  Flags that are set in this
member can be a logical OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP \w'SO_MREADOFF\(em'u
.B SO_ALL
set all old options
.RI ( Solaris \(rg
uses true mask).
.PD 0
.TP
.B SO_READOPT
Set read options to the contents of the
.I so_readopt
member.
.TP
.B SO_WROFF
Set write offset to the contents of the
.I so_wroff
member.
.TP
.B SO_MINPSZ
Set minimum packet size on Stream head read queue to the contents of the
.I so_minpsz
member.
.TP
.B SO_MAXPSZ
Set maximum packet size on Stream head read queue to the contents of the
.I so_maxpsz
member.
.TP
.B SO_HIWAT
Set the high water marek on the Stream head read queue to the contents of the
.I so_hiwat
member.
.TP
.B SO_LOWAT
Set the low water marek on the Stream head read queue to the contents of the
.I so_lowat
member.
.TP
.B SO_MREADON
Set read notification option on Stream head.
.TP
.B SO_MREADOFF
Reset read notification option on Stream head.
.TP
.B SO_NDELON
Set
.RI non- STREAMS
tty semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
on Stream head.
.TP
.B SO_NDELOFF
Set
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
on Stream head.
.TP
.B SO_ISTTY
The Stream will act as a controlling terminal.
.TP
.B SO_ISNTTY
The Stream will not act as a controlling terminal.
.TP
.B SO_TOSTOP
The Stream head will stop processes attempting a background write to the Stream.
.TP
.B SO_TONSTOP
The Stream head will not stop processes attempting a background write to the Stream.
.TP
.B SO_BAND
High and low water marks set with
.BR SO_HIWAT " or " SO_LOWAT
and members
.IR so_hiwat " and " so_lowat
apply to the band specified in member
.IR so_band .
.TP
.B SO_DELIM
The Stream head will delimit messages.
.TP
.B SO_NODELIM
The Stream head will not delimit messages.
.TP
.B SO_STRHOLD
Enable
.BR strwrite (9)
message coalescing.
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documents this flag.
.TP
.B SO_ERROPT
Set the Stream head error options to those contained in the
.I so_erropt
member.
.TP
.B SO_LOOP
Indicates to the Stream head that this is a loop around Stream; that is, the Stream supports the
passing of file descriptors.
.TP
.B SO_COPYOPT
Set the Stream head copy options to those contained in the
.I so_copyopt
member.
.TP
.B SO_MAXBLK
Set the
.I STREAMS
maximum block size for this Stream to the value contained in the
.I so_maxblk
member.
.TP
.B SO_COWENABLE
Copy on write enable.
.TP
.B SO_COWDISABLE
Copy on write disable.
.TP
.B SO_WRPAD
Set the write padding applied to the tail of
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks allocated by the Stream head to the value contained in the
.I so_wrpad
member.
.TP
.B SO_NOCSUM
Disable checksum on copy.
.TP
.B SO_CSUM
UDP/TCP checksum on copy.
.TP
.B SO_CRC32C
CRC32-C checksum on copy.
.TP
.B SO_SKBUFF
Also allocate an
.B sk_buff
for each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block.
.TP
.B SO_NOSKBUFF
Do not allocate
.B sk_buff
for data blocks.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I so_readopt
When
.B SO_READOPT
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_readopt
member contains two sets of mutually exclusive flags as follows:
.PD 0
.PD
.RS
.PP
Mutually exclusive flags indicating the read mode:
.TP
.B RNORM
Normal read handling.
.PD 0
.TP
.B RMSGD
Message discard read handling.
.TP
.B RMSGN
Message normal read handling.
.PD
.PP
Mutually exclusive flags indicating the control mode:
.TP
.B RPROTNORM
Read
.BR M_PROTO (9)/ M_PCPROTO (9)
normal.
.PD 0
.TP
.B RPROTDAT
Read
.BR M_PROTO (9)/ M_PCPROTO (9)
as data.
.TP
.B RPROTDIS
Read
.BR M_PROTO (9)/ M_PCPROTO (9)
discard.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I so_wroff
When
.B SO_WROFF
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_wroff
member contains the write offset in bytes.
.TP
.I so_minpsz
When
.B SO_MINPSZ
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_minpsz
member contains the minimum packet size in bytes.
.TP
.I so_maxpsz
When
.B SO_MAXPSZ
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_maxpsz
member contains the maximum packet size in bytes.
.TP
.I so_hiwat
When
.B SO_HIWAT
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
.I so_hiwat
contains the high water mark in bytes.
.TP
.I so_lowat
When
.B SO_LOWAT
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
.I so_lowat
contains the low water mark in bytes.
.TP
.I so_band
When
.B SO_BAND
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
.I so_band
contains the band number to which the queue options apply.
.TP
.I so_filler
Unused structure padding.
.PD
.PP
The following members are
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
specific members:
.TP \w'\fIso_readopt\fR\(em'u
.I so_erropt
When
.B SO_ERROPT
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_erropt
member contains two sets of mutually exclusive flags as follows:
.RS
.PP
Mutually exclusive flags indicating read error options.
.TP \w'\fBWERRNONSPERSIST\fR\(em'u
.B RERRNORM
Normal error handling on the read side.
.PD 0
.TP
.B RERRNONPERSIST
Non-persistent error handling on the read side.
.PD
.PP
Mutually exclusive flags indicating write error options.
.TP \w'\fBWERRNONSPERSIST\fR\(em'u
.B WERRNORM
Normal error handling on the write side.
.PD 0
.TP
.B WERRNONPERSIST
Non-persistent error handling on the write side.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I so_maxblk
When
.B SO_MAXBLK
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_maxblk
member contains the maximum message block size that will be allocated by the
Stream head.
.TP
.I so_copyopt
When
.B SO_COPYOPTT
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_copyopt
member contains two sets of mutually exclusive flags as follows:
.RS
.PP
.TP \w'\fBREMAPOK\fR\(em'u
.B MAPINOK
Use
.BR mapin (9)
instead of
.BR copyin (9)
for user write data.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NOMAPIN
Use
.BR copyin (9)
for user write data as normal.
.PD
.PP
.TP \w'\fBREMAPOK\fR\(em'u
.B REMAPOK
Use
.BR remap (9)
instead of
.BR copyout (9)
to page flip read data into user space.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NOREMAP
Use
.BR copyout (9)
for user read data as normal.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I so_wrpad
When
.B SO_WRPAD
is set in
.IR so_flags ,
the
.I so_wrpad
member contains the number of bytes to pad each allocated messages block at
the tail.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B stroptions
structure is normally contains in a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
.I STREAMS
message that is passed upstream to the Stream head to set specific options.
.PP
See the
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
manual page for a more detailed description of the flags and fields used in
association with the
.BR stroptions
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Because the members of the
.B stroptions
structure are placed in a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message, they can be manipulated directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
method of setting Stream head options using the
.B stroptions
structure provides MP-safe access to the flags and values contained in the Stream head
.BR stdata (9)
structure.
Flags and members of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure should not be manipulated directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
See also the
.BR stdata (9)
for details on the Stream head structure.
User programs can affect some of the Stream head parameters and flags using the
.BR streamio (7)
intput output controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure should not be access directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should use the facilities provide by the
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message containing this
.B stroptions
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strqset (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR stdata (9),
.BR strwrite (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B stroptions
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2"
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The flags defines for the
.I so_flags
member of the
.B stroptions
structure are not necessarily binary compatible with any given implementation.
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
defines the additional read mode,
.BR RFILL ,
and the additional control mode,
.BR RPROTCOMPRESS .
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
does not document the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_LOOP ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
Older versions of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
such as
.IR "Solaris 2.3" ,
do not document the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD ", " SO_LOOP ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxdoc
.]
does not document the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD ", " SO_LOOP ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
does not document the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpdoc
.]
does not document the
.BR SO_LOOP ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
does not document the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD ", " SO_LOOP ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags nor the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP ""
Lack of documentation for the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM " and " SO_STRHOLD
feature of the Stream head is peculiar seeing as they are documented for
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will avoid use of the
.BR SO_DELIM ", " SO_NODELIM ", " SO_STRHOLD
flags and will not use the
.BR SO_LOOP ", " SO_ERROPT ", " SO_COPYOPT " or " SO_MAXBLK
flags and the
.IR so_filler ", " so_erropt ", " so_maxblk " or " so_copyopt
members.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 EFT MP,
.[
svr42
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B stroptions
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
