'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strputpmsg.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 12:53:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strputpmsg.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 12:53:56  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRPUTPMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strputpmsg
\- perform a \fBputpmsg\fR(2s) operation on a Stream head
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int strputpmsg(struct file *" file ", struct strbuf *" ctlp ", struct strbuf *" datp ", int " band ", int " flags ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIflagsp\fR\(em'u
.I file
a file pointer for a
.I STREAMS
file.
.TP
.I ctlp
a pointer to an
.B strbuf
structure representing the control part of the message with the following members:
.RS
.TP \w'\fImaxlen\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
ignored;
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the length of the control part; minus one for no control part;
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the user buffer containing the control part.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I datp
a pointer to an
.B strbuf
structure representing the data part of the message with the following members:
.RS
.TP \w'\fImaxlen\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
ignored;
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the length of the data part; minus one for no data part;
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the user buffer containing the data part.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I band
queueing priority band for the message;
.TP
.I flags
flags for the message; when called from
.BR putmsg (2s),
.I band
is minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the flags are as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBMSG_HIPRI\fR\(em'u
.B 0
specifies a normal priority message;
.PD 0
.TP
.B RS_HIPRI
specifies a high priority message;
.PD
.PP
when called from
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.I band
is zero or positive and the flags are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBMSG_HIPRI\fR\(em'u
.B MSG_BAND
specifies a normal priority message with band number
.IR band ;
.PD 0
.TP
.B MSG_HIPRI
specifies a high priority message;
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
performs the
.BR putmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
functions on a Stream head.
.BR strputpmsg ()
provides the implementation for both
.BR putmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
is not intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules except as part of the
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
.BR wantio (9)
capability.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
returns zero or a positive value on success, and a negative error number on failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
See
.BR putmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
is called by the kernel in process context in response to a
.BR putmsg (2s)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system call issued by a process.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
implements a
.BR wantio (9)
capability where a cooperating downstream driver or module can intercept file operations for
.I STREAMS
files and
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes and FIFOs.  If the
.BR wantio (9)
capability is utilized by a downstream driver or module, that module's provided
.BR strputpmsg ()
procedures will be used instead of those described here.  The procedures described here are still
available to the cooperating driver or module for callout.  Use of the
.BR wantio (9)
capability will affect the behaviour of
.BR putmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s),
making it potentially incompatible.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
For
.BR strputpmsg ()
implementation details, see the
.I src/modules/sth.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution directory.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR wantio (9),
.BR test-streams (8),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
has no known bugs.
.BR strputpmsg ()
is rigorously tested with the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strputpmsg ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
See
.BR putmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
for specific compatibility information.
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strputmsg ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR strputmsg ()
first appeared in 
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
