'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strthread.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/05/14 08:34:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRTHREAD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strthread, sthreads
\- the SVR4 STREAMS scheduler thread structure and array
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B strthread
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct strthread {
        volatile int flags;
        queue_t *qhead;
        queue_t **qtail;
        queue_t *currentq;
        syncq_t *sqhead;
        syncq_t **sqtail;
        struct strevent *strbcalls_head;
        struct strevent **strbcalls_tail;
        struct strevent *strtimout_head;
        struct strevent **strtimout_tail;
        struct strevent *strevents_head;
        struct strevent **strevents_tail;
        queue_t *scanqhead;
        queue_t **scanqtail;
        mblk_t *freemsg_head;
        mblk_t **freemsg_tail;
        mblk_t *freemblk_head;
        mblk_t **freemblk_tail;
        struct strevent *freeevnt_head;
        struct strevent **freeevnt_tail;
} __attribute__ ((__aligned__(SMP_CACHE_BYTES)));
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B strthread
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.IR flags
Flags indicating conditions of the thread.
.TP
.IR qhead ", " qtail
A list of the queues that are scheduled for execution on this thread.
.I qhead
points to the head of the list and
.I qtail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR currentq
The queue currently being processed (if any).
.TP
.IR sqhead ", " sqtail
A list of sychronization queues that are scheduled for execution on this thread.
.I sqhead
points to the head of the list and
.I sqtail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR strbcalls_head ", " strbcalls_tail
A list of buffer calls pending execution on this thread.
.I strbcalls_head
points to the head of the list and
.I strbcalls_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR strtimout_head ", " strtimout_tail
A list of timeouts pending execution on this thread.
.I strtimout_head
points to the head of the list and
.I strtimout_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR strevents_head ", " strevents_tail
A list of STREAMS events pending execution on this thread.
.I strevents_head
points to the head of the list and
.I strevents_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR scanqhead ", " scanqtail
A list of STREAMS queues to scan for this thread.
.I scanqhead
points to the head of the list and
.I scanqtail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR freemsg_head ", " freemsg_tail
A list of flushed messages to free.
.I freemsg_head
points to the head of the list and
.I freemsg_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR freemblk_head ", " freemblk_tail
A list of free message blocks still in cache.
.I freemblk_head
points to the head of the list and
.I freemblk_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.TP
.IR freeevnt_head ", " freeevnt_tail
A list of free STREAMS events still in cache.
.I freeevnt_head
points to the head of the list and
.I freeevnt_tail
points to the tail pointer of the list.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
.TP
.B QUEUEFLAG
This flag is set while
.BR runqueues ()
is running and is used to indicate to other procedures whether the thread is executing or not.
.TP
.B QRUNFLAG
This flag is set when there is at least one queue to run.
That is, there is a queue in the
.RI < qhead , qtail >
list.
.TP
.B STRBCFLAG
This flag is set when at least one buffer callback can be run.
.TP
.B STRBCWAIT
This flag is set when there is at least one buffer call waiting.
That is, there is a strevent in the
.RI < strbcalls_head , strbcalls_tail >
list.
.TP
.B FLUSHWORK
This flag is set when flushq has messages to free.
That is, there is a buffer chain in the
.RI < freemsg_head , freemsg_tail >
list.
.TP
.B FREEBLKS
This flag is set when fast freed blocks are available for the cache.
That is, there is a message block in the
.RI < freemblk_head, freemblk_tail >
list.
.TP
.B STRTIMOUT
This flag is set when at least one timeout callback can be run.
That is, there is a timeout event in the
.RI < strtimout_head , strtimout_tail >
list.
.TP
.B STREVENTS
This flag is set when at least one STREAMS event can be run.
That is, there is a STREAMS event in the
.RI < strtimout_head , strtimout_tail >
list.
.TP
.B QSYNCFLAG
This flag is ste when at least one sychronization queue can be run.
That is, there is a synchronization queue in the
.RI < sqhead , sqtail >
list.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B strthreads
array is per-CPU and does not require protection.
This is an internal scheduler structure and should not be manipulated directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
