'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: umount2.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/03/16 11:37:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/16 11:37:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UMOUNT2 9 "$Date: 2004/03/16 11:37:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B umount2
\- unmount a filesystem
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP
int \fBumount2\fR(char *\fIpathname\fR, int \fIflags\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I pathname
is the path to the directory to which the file system is attached.
.TP
.I flags
can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B MTP_FORCE
force unmount the filesystem
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
.[
lis
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR umount2 (2)
that can be called from within the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this function beinf called from within the kernel is to permit
.IR STREAMS (4)
kernel modules to mount their own filesystems.
.PP
Normally, a filesystem would be mounted by a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module or driver when the
.B Linux
kernel module loads (i.e. within the
.BR init_module (9)
function).  Normally,
.BR umount2 ()
would be called within the kernel module
.BR cleanup_module (9)
function to unmount the filesystems that were mounted during module
initialization.
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR umount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR umount2 ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
fails under the same conditions and with the same (negative) error numbers as
.BR umount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
can be called from user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment and
calling
.BR umount (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.  This makes this function rather useless if the
process invoking it is not the kernel module loading daemon, or other process
running with real root permission.
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is a
.IR LiS -specific
function:
.B _LIS_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR umount (2),
.BR mount (9),
.BR mknod (9),
.BR unlink (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\ \(em\ 'u
.BR umount2 ()
is not bug-for-bug compatible with
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.I LiS
synthesizes system calls from inside the kernel that is incompatible with
architectures that do not support in-kernel system calls.
.BR umount2 ()
peforms a direct function call to
.BR sys_umount (9)
within the kernel and does not suffer from this deficiency.
.IP \(em
The symbol
.B lis_umount2
is provided for source compatibility.
.BR lis_umount2 ()
simply calls
.BR umount2 ().
.IP \(em
.BR umount2 ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I LiS
for the purpose of porting
.I LiS
drivers to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR LiS ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR umount2 ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.I LiS
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR umount2 ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I LiS
documentation.
.[
lis
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 2" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
