'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unbufcall.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2005/11/29 10:46:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/29 10:46:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNBUFCALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unbufcall
\- removes a \fISTREAMS\fR buffer callback
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PP
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "void unbufcall(int " bcid );
.HP
.BI "void unbufcall(toid_t " bcid );
.HP
.BI "void unbufcall(bcid_t " bcid );
.HP
.BI "void unbufcall(bufcall_id_t " bcid );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I bcid
the buffer call identifier returned by
.BR bufcall (9)
or
.BR esbbcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
cancels the buffer callback that was installed using
.BR bufcall "(9) or " esbbcall (9).
.I bcid
is the buffer callback identifier that was returned from a previous call to
.BR bufcall "(9) or " esbbcall (9).
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
is typically used to remove outstanding buffer calls when a stream is closing.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
silently fails if the buffer callback identified by
.I bcid
no longer exists;
or, 
.I bcid
is invalid.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
call outs, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Because the module is permitted to unload after calling
.BR unbufcall ()
for all outstanding buffer callbacks the call to
.BR unbufcall ()
will not return until either the callback function has completed, or the
callback function has been cancelled.  Therefore the callback function will be
guaranteed not to run once 
.BR unbufcall ()
has returned for all outstanding callbacks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
can be called with a
.I bcid
returned by
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esbbcall (9),
or
.BR qbufcall (9).
(For
.BR qbufcall (9),
it is more appropriate to use the
.BR qunbufcall (9)
function.)
.PP
.BR unbfucall ()
must be called for all outstanding buffer calls from the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure of the module before exiting or unloading.
.PP
Because
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.[
lfs
.]
uses an outdaing pointer for the returned
.BR bcid_t ,
.BR unbufcall ()
must be called promptly for outstanding buffer calls.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esbbcall (9),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.BR mi_bufcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR unbufcall ()
uses an efficient packed out-dating pointer for
.BR bcid_t .
.I LiS
uses rather inefficient linear lookups with interrupts disabled while looking for the
.I bcid
in the list of buffer callbacks.
.[
lis
.]
As buffer callbacks should be rare in most
.I STREAMS
module and driver designs, this is of little moment.
.IP \(em
In
.I SVR 4
.BR unbufcall ()
was redefined to accept a
.B bcid_t
.I bcid
instead of an
.B int
.I bcid
as was the case for
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.[
svr4spg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
ues a
.B bufcall_id_t
instead.
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
use
.B register int
for
.IR bcid .
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
uses a plain
.BR int .
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
use a
.BR toid_t .
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_unbufcall ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
See
.BR liscompat (9).
.BR lis_unbufcall ()
calls
.BR unbufcall ()
directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR unbufcall ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
