'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unfreezestr.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2005/08/29 10:06:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/08/29 10:06:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNFREEZESTR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unfreezestr
\- thaw the state of a stream queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #undef _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #undef _LIS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void unfreezestr(queue_t *" q ", pl_t " pl );
.sp 2
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void unfreezestr(queue_t *" q );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue within the stream to thaw.
.TP
.I pl
the interrupt priority level to restore.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
thaws the state of the stream containing
.I q
and unlocks
.IR q .
Streams are normally in the thawed state and queues are normally in the
unlocked state.
The purpose of
.BR unfreezestr ()
is to thaw the state of the stream containing
.I q
and unlocking
.I q
after freezing them with
.BR freezestr (9).
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
must be called before returning in the same thread in which
.BR freezestr (9)
was called.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
can be called from any non-ISR context, including user context, module procedures, callouts,
callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), but excluding interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for the validity of the
reference
.IR q .
References to
.I q
from a procedure, call out or callback predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs are guaranteed valid.  The caller must guarantee the validity from
call outs, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines not
predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
called with with an invalid
.I q
pointer will have undefined results.
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
called with a private queue pair allocated with
.BR allocq (9)
will only unlock the queue.  It is the caller's responsibility to unlock any
private queue linkage protection.
.PP
If
.BR unfreezestr ()
is called twice for the same queue, or is called without first calling
.BR freezestr (9),
results will be undefined.
(Actually,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protects against this and will issue a bug report and leave the stream in the
unfrozen state.)
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR allocq (9)
.BR appq (9),
.BR bcanget (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR canget (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR esbbcall (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR put (9)
.BR putbq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qbufcall (9)
.BR qclose (9),
.BR qcountstrm (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9)
.BR qprocson (9)
.BR qreply (9),
.BR qsize (9),
.BR qtimeout (9)
.BR qwriter (9)
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR SAMESTR (9).
.BR setq (9),
.BR srv (9),
.BR STREAMS (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR timeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unfreezestr ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.[
suxspg
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR LiS
.[
lis
.]
provide this function.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpspg
.]
do not provide this function.
.RI ( HP-UX \(rg
provides the symbols, but they do nothing.)
.IP \(em
.IR LiS
.[
LiS
.]
provides a particularly broken version of this function.  See
.BR freezestr (9)
for more information.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
and
.IR LiS
provide the function prototype:
.BI "void unfreezestr(queue_t *" q ).
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
provide the prototype
.BR "void unfreezestr(queue_t *" q ", pl_t " pl ).
.IP \(em
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
specifies that the following functions cannot be called on a frozen stream:
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putb (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qreply (9),
.BR qsize (9),
.BR SAMESTR (9).
.IP \(em
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
specifies that the following functions must have the stream frozen across the
call:
.BR insq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
A version of
.BR freezestr ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 MP" " and " "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr4dk
.]
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
