'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unlink.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2005/12/06 09:39:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNLINK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unlink
\- remove a file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP
int \fBunlink\fR(char *\fIpathname\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I pathname
the path to the file to remove.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is an
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR unlink (2)
that can be called from the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this function being called from the kernel is to permit
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver or module when the
.B Linux
kernel module loads (i.e. within the
.BR init_module (9)
function).
Normally,
.BR unlink ()
would be called within the kernel module
.BR cleanup_module (9)
function to remove the character special devices that were created during
module initialization.
.PP
The arguments to
.BR unlink ()
are the same as for
.BR unlink (2).
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR unlink (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR unlink ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns
a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR unlink ()
fails under the same conditions and returns the same (negative) error codes as
.BR unlink (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unlink ()
can be called from user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is a
.IR LiS -specific
function:
.B _LIS_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS_MODULE
defined.
.PP
Unlink is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment
and calling
.BR unlink (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.  This makes the function rather useless unless
the process invoking it is not the kernel module loading daemon, or other
process running with real root permission.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR unlink (2),
.BR mount (9),
.BR umount2 (9),
.BR mknod (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unlink ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR unlink ()
is not bug-for-bug compatible with
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.I LiS
synthesizes system calls from inside the kernel that is incompatible with
architectures that do not support in-kernel system calls.
.BR unlink ()
performs a direct function call to
.BR sys_unlink (9)
within the kernel and does not suffer from this deficiency.
.IP \(em
The symbol
.B lis_unlink
is provided for source compatibility.
.BR lis_unlink ()
simply calls
.BR unlink ().
.IP \(em
.BR unlink ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I LiS
for the purpose of porting
.I LiS
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR LiS ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR unlink ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.I LiS
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR unlink ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I LiS
documentation.
.[
lis
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unlink ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 2" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
