'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unregister_clone.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:44:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: unregister_clone.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_CLONE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_clone
\- unregister a clone minor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_clone(struct cdevsw *" cdev );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to a character device switch table,
.BR cdevsw (9),
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
driver for which to remove a clone device minor.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
locates the minor device number of the
.BR clone (4)
driver associated with the
.I STREAMS
device specified by
.I cdev
that was registered using
.BR register_clone (9),
and calls
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
for that device node.
.BR unregister_clone ()
then frees the memory associated with the
.BR devnode (9)
structure that was allocated by the call
to
.BR register_clone (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is probably not the function that you want.  See
.BR unregister_strdev (9).
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
is called automatically by
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
to unregister a clone device minor
in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system for every
.I STREAMS
device driver unregistering for an external major character device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unregister_clone ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
upon failure, a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unregister_clone ()
fails, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEWOULDBLOCK\fR]\(en'u
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the minor device node
.BR devnode (9)
structure does not exist.
.PP
In addition,
.BR unregister_clone ()
can return any error number returned by
.BR unregister_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
is intended to be called from a blockable process context during just prior to the unloading of a
.I STREAMS
kernel module and as part of the deallocation of that kernel module.
It may also be called at blockable process context as part of a
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.BR unregister_clone ()
is MP-safe when called from the proper context.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
is a convenience function that simply locates the
.BR devnode (9)
structure,
and unregisters it with
.BR unregister_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific
function that is not intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  This is certainly not the utility you need: see
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
and
.BR unregister_strnod (9).
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_clone (9)
when loading must call
.BR unregister_clone ()
before unloading.
.BR unregister_clone ()
must be called with the same arguments with which the corresponding
.BR register_clone (9)
was called.
.PP
Drivers unregistered with
.BR unregister_clone ()
will no longer appear as a minor device node in the
.B /dev/streams/clone/
directory, visible when the
.BR specfs (5)
file system has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams.
.PP
If you use
.BR unregister_clone ()
from outside of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package, your code may break on the next release.
Do not use
.BR unregister_clone ():
use
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
or
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR clone (4),
.BR register_clone (9),
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
.BR devnode (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR specfs (5),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function with support for the mountable
.BR specfs (5)
file system.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementations provide different mechanisms.
The
.BR strcompat (5)
package for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides additional mechanisms compatible with other implementations.
See also
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR unregister_clone ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_clone ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
