'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unregister_strdev_minor.9.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_STRDEV_MINOR 9 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_strdev_minor
\- unregister a \fISTREAMS\fR device from a minor device node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_strdev_minor(dev_t " dev ", struct cdevsw *" cdev );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
deallocates a device node
.IR dev ,
within the
.IR STREAMS (4)
character special device filesystem
and deregisters the
.IR STREAMS (4)
device
.IR cdev ,
from that device node.
Once a
.IR STREAMS (4)
minor device is deregistered, opening a character device special node in any
filesystem will no longer result in a call to the
.BR qopen (9)
routine for the device.
.\"
.\"
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
does not affect open streams for the character device special node and only
serves to unlink the special node in the special device filesystem.  The
special device node will be removed once all streams are closed for the
device.
.\"
.\"
.SS ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dev
the character device number (major and minor) for which to unregister the
STREAMS device.
.TP
.I cdev
the character device switch table entry that describes the STREAMS device.
This must be the same
.B struct cdevsw
pointer that was passed to
.BR unregister_strdev_minor (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
does not deallocate a device major number from the
.B Linux
kernel.  Either the driver must also deallocate the major device number
associated with the node using
.BR unregister_strdev_major (9)
or the minor device will remain accessible outside the STREAMS environment.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the character device minor STREAMS device is unregistered and
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
return zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
returns non-zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
Upon failure,
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
returns one of the negative error numbers listed below:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
does not point to a valid character device switch table entry.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
insufficient memory was avaialable to complete the request.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
a device is already registered against the character minor device, or the
character minor device is open under the specified major device number.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
the kernel loadable module associated with the STREAMS driver was unloaded by
the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev_minor (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR unregister_snode (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev_minor ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
specific function.  Because all STREAMS modules and drviers require some form of
registration, the use of this function cannot be avoided and remains a
non-portable element of STREAMS device drivers.
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
A STREAMS device registration function appeared in
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.TI

