'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unregister_strdrv.9.man,v 0.9.2.9 2005/12/02 15:15:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 15:15:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: unregister_strdrv.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2005/12/02 15:15:51  brian
.\" - more updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2005/11/29 10:46:36  brian
.\" - updating manual pages for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2005/11/26 11:17:13  brian
.\" - updating man pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2005/11/25 23:42:07  brian
.\" - manual page updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2005/11/22 11:57:25  brian
.\" - updating documentation for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/08/29 10:06:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates during rework
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_STRDRV 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_strdrv
\- unregister a \fISTREAMS\fR device driver from the \fBspecfs\fP(5)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_strdrv(struct cdevsw *" cdev );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to the
.I STREAMS
character device switch table entry,
.BR cdevsw (9),
to unregister.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
unregisters the character device switch table entry,
.IR cdev ,
from the character device switch table.
.PP
Historically, under
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
the character device switch table was a fixed-sized array indexed on major device number.  With
expanded major device number, a fixed-size array would be to consumptive of pinned memory.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses a file system directory approach instead.
Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
each
.I STREAMS
device driver is allocated a directory entry in the
.IR "STREAMS Special Shadow File System" ,
.BR specfs (5).
Special
.B inode
numbering is used in the
.BR specfs (5),
where the major component of the
.B inode
number is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
and the minor component of the
.B inode
number is the module id (internal major device number) of the driver.  Each registered
.I STREAMS
device driver has a directory
.B inode
in the
.BR specfs (5).
Lookups are performed by looking up an
.B inode
on the
.BR specfs (5)
by
.B inode
number.
See
.BR specfs (5)
for additional details.
.PP
The
.I cdev
entry must contain a
.I d_name
member.
Othersize,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
will fail with error
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.PP
The
.I cdev
entry must have previously been registered with a call to
.BR register_strdrv (9),
otherwise,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
will fail with error
.RB [ ENXIO ].
.PP
The
.I cdev
entry must not have any external major device nodes that remain allocated with
.BR register_xnode (9);
minor device nodes that remain allocated with
.BR register_strnod (9);
autopush entries allocated with
.BR autopush_add (9),
or via the
.BR sad (4)
driver; nor active stream heads;
otherwise,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
will fail with error
.RB [ EBUSY ].
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is probably not the function that you want.  See
.BR unregister_strdev (9).
.PP
.BR register_strdrv (9)
is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver initialization routine
.RB ( __init "() or " module_init "() procedure)
to publish the driver to the
.I STREAMS
executive and the
.BR specfs (5)
file system, making the driver available to user space scripts and programs to
.BR open (2s)
the device driver via the
.BR specfs (5).
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver termination routine
.RB ( __exit "() or " module_exit "() procedure)
to remove the driver from the
.I STREAMS
executive and the
.BR specfs (5)
file system, making the driver no longer available to user space scripts and programs to
.BR open (2s)
the device driver via the
.BR specfs (5).
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
is used to unregister a
.I STREAMS
device driver.
.I STREAMS
device drivers registered with
.BR register_strdrv (9)
must be unregistered with
.BR unregister_strdrv (),
using the same
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure,
.IR cdev ,
that was passed to
.BR register_strdrv (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0).
Upon failure,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
takes no action and returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
fails and returns a negative error number.
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
can fail under the following conditions:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I cdev
structure or its members are invalid or contain invalid information.  (See text.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The
.I cdev
supplied is not registered.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The
.I cdev
supplied is still in use with an allocated major device node, minor device node, autopush entry, or
active stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
can be called from any blocking context, including user context, kernel thread context, module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures, and some top level
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures; however, it is only intended to be called from a module or driver
.BR __exit ()
or
.BR moddule_exit ()
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
is MP-safe, when called from the correct context.  The caller must ensure exclusive access to the
passed in
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure,
.IR cdev ,
and its associated linked structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
device drivers registered with
.BR register_strdrv (9)
in a module or driver initialization routine, must be unregistered with
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
is a module or driver termination routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR open (2s),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR cdev_del (9),
.BR register_strdrv (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR dev_t (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv (9)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
specific de-registration function that should not be used directly by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers.
See
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
for a function that can be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_strdrv ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
