'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unregister_strmod.9.man,v 0.9.2.9 2005/05/14 08:34:31 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:31 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_STRMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_strmod
\- unregister a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_strmod(modID_t " modid ", struct fmodsw *" fmod );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I modid
the module identification number indicating the
.I STREAMS
module to unregister.
.TP
.I fmod
A pointer to a
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure indicating the characteristics of the module.  Thw following members
of the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure, pointed to by
.IR fmod ,
are significant:
.RS
.TP
.I f_name
.TP
.I f_str
.TP
.I f_flag
.TP
.I f_kmod
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_strmod ()
deallocates a module node
.IR modid ,
within the
.I STREAMS
shadow special file system
.BR specfs (5)
and unregisters the
.I STREAMS
module
.IR fmod ,
from that module node.
Once a
.I STREAMS
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
is provided to deregister
.I STREAMS
modules written for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unregister_strmod ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR unregister_strmod ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unregister_strmod ()
failes to unregister the specified
.I STREAMS
module, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fmod
was
.BR NULL ,
or the
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure referenced contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fmod
does not reference a registered
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR 
.BR unregister_strmod ()
can be called from any blocking context.  Consideration for import on
performance and latency should be given before calling
.BR unregister_strmod ()
from soft or hard interrupt context.  Typically,
.BR unregister_strmod ()
is called from the
.BR module_exit (9)
procedure of a kernel module associated with a
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unregister_strmod ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR regsiter_strmod (9)
when loading must call
.BR unregister_strmod ()
before unloading.
.BR unregister_strmod ()
must be called with the same value of
.I fmod
with which
.BR register_strmod (9)
was called.
.PP
Modules unregistered with
.BR unregister_strmod ()
will no longer appear in
.BR /proc/streams/modules .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR register_strmod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_strmod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_strmod ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
implementation specific function.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementation provide different mechanisms.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for mechanisms compatible with other implementations
and additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and unregistration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR unregister_strmod ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
first appeared in
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
