'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: wantio.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2005/04/20 18:41:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/20 18:41:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH WANTIO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B wantio
\- perform direct I/O from a \fISTREAMS\fR driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _AIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int wantio(queue_t *" q ", struct wantio *" w );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
The driver queue pointer calling the function.
.TP
.I w
a pointer to a
.B waitio
structure that contains the IO functions to call directly from the stream
head.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When
.I w
is
.RB non- NULL ,
.BR wantio ()
installs the direct IO functions specified in the 
.B wantio
structure pointed to by
.I w
into the stream head associated with the driver queue pointed to by
.IR q .
.PP
When
.I w
is
.BR NULL ,
.BR wantio ()
removes any direct IO functions installed by a previous call to
.BR wantio ().
.PP
The
.B wantio
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct wantio {
	unsigned int (*poll)();
	ssize_t (*read)();
	ssize_t (*write)();
	ssize_t (*readv)();
	ssize_t (*writev)();
	ssize_t (*sendpage)();
	int (*getpmsg)();
	int (*putpmsg)();
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP \w'getpmsg()\(em'u
.IR poll ()
A pointer to a poll procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no poll procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
poll file operation.
.TP
.IR read ()
A pointer to a read procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no read procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
read file operation.
.TP
.IR write ()
A pointer to a write procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no write procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
write file operation.
.TP
.IR readv ()
A pointer to a readv procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no readv procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
readv file operation.
.TP
.IR writev ()
A pointer to a writev procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no writev procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
writev file operation.
.TP
.IR sendpage ()
A pointer to a sendpage procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no sendpage procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
sendpage file operation.
.TP
.IR getpmsg ()
A pointer to a getpmsg procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no getpmsg procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
getpmsg file operation.
.TP
.IR putpmsg ()
A pointer to a putpmsg procedure for direct I/O or
.B NULL
if no putpmsg procedure is specified.
The prototype for this function is the same as the
.B Linux
putpmsg file operation.
.PP
When the
.B wantio
structure is provided to the
.BR wantio ()
call, each
.RB non- NULL
element of the
.B wantio
structure will be used instead of the corresponding element in the file operations for the stream
head.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is useful for
.I STREAMS
drivers that need direct I/O operations for efficiency or other special applications.  Zero-copy
write operations can be accomplished by replacing the
.BR sendpage ()
file operation which is invoked by
.BR sendfile (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR wantio ()
always returns zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR wantio ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR wantio ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is MP-safe and neither takes nor releases locks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is a
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
function:
.B _AIX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE
defined.
.PP
Before calling
.BR wantio ()
for an active stream,
the following steps should be performed by the driver:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
Send a
.B M_LETSPLAY
message upstream with a
.B strlp
structure in the message.  The
.B strlp
structure is formatted as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct strlp {
        int lp_count;
        queue_t *lp_queue;
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP \w'lp_count\(em'u
.I lp_count
Initially set to zero by the driver, this count is incremented by each module
that recognizes the
.B M_LETSPLAY
message type and will permit direct IO to the driver.  Once the
.B M_LETSPLAY
message reaches the stream head, the stream head compares this count with the
number of modules pushed on the stream.  If the two are equal, the stream head
returns an
.B M_BACKDONE
message.  If the two are different, the stream head returns an
.B M_DONTPLAY
message.
.TP
.I lp_queue
A pointer to the driver's write queue.
.RE
.IP ""
When an intervening module receives an
.B M_BACKDONE
message, it delivers all queued data as
.B M_BACKWASH
messages, and any
.B M_BACKWASH
messages received from upstream,
and sends the
.B M_BACKDONE
message downstream.
In this way, all queue data is delivered to the driver's write queue as
.B M_BACKWASH
messages followed by a
.B M_BACKDONE
message.
.IP (2)
Wait for an
.B M_DONTPLAY
or
.B M_BACKDONE
message received on the write queue.
.IP (3)
If an
.B M_DONTPLAY
message is received, the driver cannot call
.BR waitio ().
.IP (4)
If an
.B M_BACKDONE
message is received, the driver can handle any
.B M_BACKWASH
messages representing pushed data and call
.BR waitio ().
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR wantmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR wantio ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
.I STREAMS
utility function.
.BR wantio ()
is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR wantio ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
function and it should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
The
.B wantio
structure does not appear in
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
Therefore, the
.B wantio
structure bears no resemblance to that of
.IR AIX \(rg.
Because of structural differences, source-level compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
is not guaranteed.
.IP \(em
The
.B strlp
structure does not appear in
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
Therefore, the
.B strlp
structure described above bears no resemblance to that of
.IR AIX \(rg.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
.I STREAMS
utility function.
.BR wantio ()
is compliant with
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR wantio ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
.I STREAMS
utility function.
.BR wantio ()
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
