'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xmsgsize.9.man,v 0.9.2.15 2005/12/02 12:05:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH XMSGSIZE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xmsgsize \", lis_xmsgsize
\- calculate the size of message blocks in a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int xmsgsize(mblk_t *" mp ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
the message to count data block sizes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
counts the number of data bytes in data blocks of the same type as the first
data block in the message pointed to by
.IR mp .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
returns the byte count as described above.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
always succeeds when passed a valid message pointer,
.IR mp .
.BR xmsgsize ()
must not be passed a
.B NULL
message pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves) and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
is MP-safe.
It is the responsibility of the caller, however, to ensure validity of reference and exclusive
access to the passed in message.
See
.BR mp-streams (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
specific internal function provided by the base
.I "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
package.
The
.I STREAMS Compatibility Modules
.BR strcompat (5)
package is not required for this symbol to be accessed.
It is not necessary to define
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or to include
.RB < sys/strsun.h >
to access this symbol.
However, portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not access this function.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR msgsize (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR xmsgsize ()
skips leading and interior zero-length message blocks and only considers the type of the first
non-zero-length message block.
The primary reason for this is that
.BR msgpullup (9)
and
.BR adjmsg (9)
do not remove zero-length message blocks under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
whereas
.IR Solaris \(rg
does.
.IP \(em
.BR xmsgsize ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
specific internal function exported by
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not access this function.
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should not access this function.
.IP \(em
.BR xmsgsize ()
will panic the system if
.IR mp
is
.BR NULL .
Under
.IR LiS ,
but not
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
.BR xmsgsize ()
will return zero (0)
if
.I mp
is
.BR NULL .
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass
.B NULL
pointers to
.BR xmsgsize ().
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
appears as an exported function in
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR xmsgsize ()
first appeared as an internal function in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
