'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sigtran.conf.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/11/30 13:17:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/11/30 13:17:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sigtran.conf.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/11/30 13:17:54  brian
.\" - added files from strss7 package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SIGTRAN.CONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sigtran.conf
\- configuration file for \fISIGTRAN\fR driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/sigtran.conf
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.SS "OBJECTS"
.PP
Primary objects include the following:
.TP
.B Association
An SCTP association.  There are 4 types of associations:
.RS
.TP
.I ASP to SGP (XP-G)
This is a standard association between a local ASP and a remote SGP belonging to a remote SG.
.TP
.I SGP to ASP (XP-A)
This is a standard association between a local SGP and a remote ASP belonging to a remote ASP pool.
.TP
.I SPP to SPP (XP-S)
This is a standard association between a local SPP and a remote SPP belonging to a remote IPSP.
.TP
.I Cross Link (XP-X)
A cross-link is either between ASPs, between SGP or between SPP.  These associations are not subject
to standardization, however, they use the same SIGTRAN protocol with the exception that all messages
contain the ASP Id parameter identifying to which ASP, SGP or SPP the message is intended.
.RS
.TP
.I ASP to ASP (XP-X)
An association between ASPs (normally in the same ASP pool).  The ASP to ASP cross-link can either
provide access to the remote ASP, or can provide access to a remote SGP via the peer ASP.  In the
former case it behaves as an SGP to ASP association; the later, an ASP to SGP association.  ASP to
ASP cross-links normally occur at an ASP and are not necessary for proper operation of the complex.
They are only useful when the ASPs are colocated (such as in ASP proxy scenarios).
.TP
.I SGP to SGP (XP-X)
An association between SGPs (normally in the same SG).  The SGP to SGP cross-link can either
provide access to the remote SGP, or can provide access to a remote ASP via the peer SGP.  In the
former case it behaves as an ASP to SGP association; the later, an SGP to ASP association.  SGP to
SGP cross-links normally only occur at an SGP.  Because all SGP belonging to an SG are typically
colocated, these links are useful within an SG but not as useful between SG (unless SG are located
in the same complex as with ASP proxy scenarios).
.TP
.I SPP to SPP (XP-X)
An association between SSP (normally in the same IPSP).  The SPP to SPP cross-link can either
provide access to the remote SPP, or can provide access to a remote SPP via the peer SPP.  In both
cases they behave as a normal SPP to SPP association.  Because all SPP belonging to an IPSP are
typically colocated, these links are useful within an IPSP.
.RE
.PP
An association is described as a local ASP, SGP or SPP identifier and a remote SGP, ASP or SPP
identifier.  Each remote ASP, SGP or SPP has associated with it an IP address for contact and
possibly a port number.  Regardless of whether the connection is direct or cross-link, the process
taking the role of the ASP for the association will initiate the connection and the process taking
the role of the SGP for the association will listen for connections on the well-known UA port
number; processes taking on the role of an SPP will both initiate connections.  At the process
taking on the role of an SGP for the connection, either there is a port number associated with the
remote end (in which case the ASP can be identified by port number) or the process taking on the
role of the ASP must identify itself in the ASP Up message by including the ASP Id parameter.
.PP
Both direct and cross-link associations are grouped by the ASP, SGP or SPP identifier of the ASP,
SGP or SPP at the remote end.
.PP
Each association has a cost associated with it.  Direct associations typically have a cost of zero;
cross-link associations, a cost of 1 or greater.
.RE
.PP
Cross-link associations implement an ASP to ASP, SGP to SGP, or SPP to SPP protocol that is not
subject to standardization.  Nevertheless, OpenSS7 uses a slight modification to the existing
standards to implement this protocol.  The differences from the standard SIGTRAN protcols is that
the ASP Id parameter is included on all messages.  The ASP Id parameter identifies an ASP, SGP or
SPP within the system.  Each end behaves in a DE-IPSP fashion: that is, it registers and activates
for traffic that it is willing to receive, each message being prefixed with the ASP Id identifying
the ASP, SGP or SPP to which the traffic relates.  At an ASP or SPP, traffic destined for the ASP's
or SPP's own ASP Id are delivered locally to the SS-U; at an SGP, the SS-P.  Traffic destined for
another ASP, SGP or SPP are delivered to that node if possible, otherwise an ASP Inactive Ack for
the appropriate ASP Id and traffic range (RC or IID) is issued.  In this way, standard SIGTRAN
mechanisms are reused for cross-links between associated ASP, SGP or SPP.
.RE
.TP
.B ASP (SPP-A)
An ASP is described by its ASP Id.  A unique ASP Id must be assigned to every ASP in the system.
The ASP Id assignment must be consistent with ASP Id assignments made by peer ASPs and SGP in the
system.  Each ASP belongs to one and only one ASP pool.
.TP
.B SGP (SPP-G)
An SGP is described by its SGP Id.  A unique SGP Id must be assigned to every SGP in the system.
The SGP Id assignment must be consistent with SGP Id assignments made by peer SGPs and ASPs in the
system.
Because the SGP Id never appears on the standard on-the-wire protocol (only on cross-links), its
assignment does not need to be consistent with remote ASP Pools, SGs or IPSPs.  Each SGP belongs to
one and only one SG.
.TP
.B SSP (SPP-S)
An SPP is described by its ASP Id.  A unique ASP Id must be asigned to every SPP in the system.  The
ASP Id assignment must be consistent with ASP Id assignments made by peer SPP in the system.
The ASP Id assignment must be consistent with ASP Id assignments made by peer IPSPs in the system.
Each SPP belongs to one and only one IPSP.
.TP
.B ASP pool/IPSP (SP-U)
A set of ASPs (or SPPs).  Each ASP pool (IPSP) contains a list of remote SG (IPSP) from which the
ASP pool (IPSP) obtains service for a set of preconfigured AS.
.IP ""
For a local ASP, there is normally only one ASP pool which is the set of remote peer ASPs associated
with the local ASP to which the local ASP wishes to provide redundant SGP access and from which it
hopes to obtain redundant SGP access.  Indirect ASP to SGP and SGP to ASP associations can be
configured between the local ASP and any ASP in this pool.  Peer ASPs connecting and successfully
completing ASP Up procedures can be dynamically added to the default pool.  The ASP pool is
associated with one or more SG from which it receives service.
.IP ""
For a local SGP, there is also normally only one ASP pool which is the set of remote ASPs associated
with the local SGP to which the local SGP may act as an AS provider.  The SGP can be configured to
only accept connections from ASPs in the ASP pool, or can dynamically add ASPs to the ASP pool as
they connect and successfully complete ASP Up procedures.  At an SGP, when an ASP connects and
succesfully completes ASP Up procedures, the ASP is moved to the ASP-Inactive state for each AS
preconfigured for the ASP pool.
.IP ""
For a local SPP, there is normally only one SPP pool (IPSP) which is the set of remote peer SPPs
associated with the local IPSP to which the local SPP wishes to provide redundant SPP access and
from which it hopes to obtain redundant SPP access.  Indirect SPP to SPP associations (cross-links)
can be configured between the local SPP and any SPP in this pool.  Peer SPPs connecting and
successfully completing ASP Up procedure can be dynamically added to the default pool.  The SPP
pool is associated with the local IPSP.  At an SPP, when an SPP connects and successfully completes
ASP Up porcedures, the SPP is moved to the ASP-Inactive state for each AS preconfigured for the
IPSP.
.IP ""
At an SGP or IPSP, ASP pools/IPSP have associated with them an access control list which specifies
the IP addresses from which ASPs are allowed to connect anonymously (to later identify themselves
with an ASP Id).
.TP
.B SG/IPSP (SP-P)
A set of SGPs.  SGPs belonging to the same SG provide like service (connectivity to the SS7 network)
to ASPs.  Each SG has a traffic mode associated with it that describes how ASPs in an ASP pool
distribute messages over SGP in the SG.  For link UALs (M2UA, IUA), the traffic mode is moot as
there is only one SGP per SG.  For routing UALs (M3UA, SUA, TUA), the traffic mode can be override,
loadshare or broadcast (but is typically loadshare based on the SLS or Sequence Control in the
outbound message).  Each SG contains a list of ASP pools to which it provides service and as set of
preconfigured AS that it provides to ASPs.
.IP ""
For a local ASP, there can be one or more SG providing service to the ASP pool.  SG providing like
service can be group into pairs (mated STP).  For M3UA, each SG represents set of route-sets.
.IP ""
For a local SGP, there can be one or more SG providing service to the ASP pools, one to which the
local SGP belongs, the others representing remote SGs.
.TP
.B SG Group
A group of SG (normally a pair acting as STPs) providing like service to ASPs.
.TP
.B AS
An AS (Application Server) defines a range of traffic (associated with a link or routing key) for
which ASP obtain service or for which SGP provide service.  Each AS defined for the system has a
unique AS identifier.  An AS is only associated with a specific IID (interface id) or RC (Routing
Context) when it is associated with an ASP pool, SG or IPSP.  When statically allocated from tables,
and with an ASP pool, SG or IPSP, it is necessary to specify the IID or RC assignment to the
relation (that is, an assignment of an AS to an ASP pool or SG is a tuple consisting of the AS
identifier and the IID or RC value).
.\"
.SS "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
