@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100 fo+=tcqlorn
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2008-12-06 08:20:50 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-12-06 08:20:50 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
* Release 0.9.2.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the second separate @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.  The package contains modules and drivers formerly part of the @cite{strss7} and
@cite{striso} packages and which have been moved to this subpackage.

With @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package} release @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}, the ATM and Frame Relay
components were separated from the @file{strss7} package and placed into the @file{striso} package.
With release @file{openss7-0.9.2.G}, the ATM and Frame Relay components were separated from the
@file{striso} package and placed into this package.  All previous ATM and Frame Relay components
have been strapped into this release and have been revalidated against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
using validation test suites.  See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/TODO,,@file{TODO}} in the
release, or @refman{Schedule}, for more information about release schedule.

This is a beta release and is part of the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package}
(@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}|).

Major features since the last public release are:

@itemize -
@item
Includes all ATM drivers and modules.  Drivers include WAN, LLC2, LAPB, LLI and NLI.  Conversion
modules are also provided for CDI, DLPI, NPI and TPI.  An ATM module is provided for OpenGroup
standard use with the XTI/TLI library from the @file{strxnet} package.  CONS module for use of ATM
by the @file{striso} package.

@item
Includes all Frame Relay drivers and modules.  Drivers include the Frame Relay driver,
@manref{fr(4)}, IP over FR driver, @manref{ifr(4)}, Multi-Protocol over FR Encapsulation driver,
@manref{mfe(4)},

@item
Full conformance validation test suites for each protocol components.

@item
Full management an SNMP agents for all of the protocol layers.  Integration of SNMP management with
the OpenSS7 SNMP management tool.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public, stable, production grade release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 @manref{rpm(8)} and @manref{dpkg(1)} based distributions, and
can be used on production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released strictly under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version
3}; however, commercial licensing is available.  The release is available as an @manref{autoconf(1)}
tarball, SRPM, DSC, and a set of binary RPMs and DEBs for popular distributions.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,package page} for the @mantype{autoconf(1)}
tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/repos.html,repository page} for information concerning network
installation and update sources.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog,ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS,NEWS} in the release for
more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html,html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20081029_M.html}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial open source release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This release
contains modules and drivers formerly only available with Commercial releases of the @file{strss7}
package and which are only recently available as open source with the release of this package.

With OpenSS7 Master Package release @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}, the ISO/OSI components were separated
from the @file{strss7} package and placed in this package.  Not all of the ISO/OSI components
previously part of the @file{strss7} package have been strapped into this release.  Components will
be re-validated against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on a module-by-module and driver-by-driver basis.
See @file{TODO} in the release, or @refman{Schedule}, for information about the release schedule.

In this initial release, the major component first available is LAPB.  @manpage{lapb(4)} is a
pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over a @manpage{cdi(4)} HDLC channel to form an ATM
data link providing the Data Link Provider Interface, @manpage{dlpi(7)}.  A complete test suite will
be available in a further release.

Subsequent releases in 4Q 2008 will include the additional full ISO/OSI ATM< CONS, CLNS, and TP0
through TP4, drivers with conformance test suites.

