% -*- texinfo -*-
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: mg.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/04 08:25:00 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/04 08:25:00 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% $Log: mg.texi,v $
% Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/04 08:25:00  brian
% - added new files
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c %**start of header
@setfilename mg.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* Open MG: (openmg).			OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries a copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2007  OpenSS7 Corporation
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@subsubheading Published by:
@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@b{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@sp 1

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed.  @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Executive Overview::
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Index::
@end menu

@node Executive Overview
@unnumbered Executive Overview

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The initial and primary
purposes of this equipment is to provide a scalable, carrier-grade platform for terminating TDM
voice circuits from the PSTN and providing Media Gatway capabilities for those terminated circuits.
The purpose is both one of @dfn{hard switching}, where circuits are directly connected, as well as
@dfn{soft switching}, where circuits are converted to RTP sessions and passed to another Media
Gateway.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 Project

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} is an open source software project that has
developed many protocol components within the SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN and VoIP protocol stacks.
Intellectual property rights for the OpenSS7 Project are held by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,
OpenSS7 Corporation}.  All OpenSS7 Project software is eventually licensed under the GNU Public
License Version 2.  OpenSS7 Corporation also provide commercial licensing of OpenSS7 Project
software under terms less restrictive than the GPL.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 Media Gateway

OpenSS7 can provide VoIP gateway capabilities in a high-performance, low-cost, small-footprint
platform leaveraging the GNU/Linux operating system distributions and tools, and utilizing low-cost
commodity, or high-quality standardized hardware.

For details on platform applications, see @ref{Application Architecture}, @ref{Network
Architecture}, @ref{Optional Application Support}, and @ref{Optional Network Support}.

@subsubheading Open Source Software

The OpenSS7 Project leverages the widespread use of GNU/Linux operation systems, distributions, and
FSF tools such as @samp{autoconf} and @dfn{RPM}.  For example, this document was formatted for PDF,
HTML, info and plain text using the GNU @dfn{texinfo} system, @samp{autoconf}, and the @TeX{}
formatting system.

The open source model avoids proprietary lock-in and permits in-house or outsourced development.
All source code is available for use and modification by the end customer.  All build tools,
documentation and associated resources are generally available.  The availability of the source code
and complete documentation eases problem resolution and can offer upgrades and fixes even in advance
of client problem reports.  

For details on software solutions, see @ref{Protocol Architecture}, @ref{Software Architecture},
@ref{Optional Protocol Support}, and @ref{Optional Software Support}.

@subsubheading Commodity Hardware

By best utilizing commodity PC or standardized CompactPCI hardware, OpenSS7 makes available the
highest performance platforms available on the market at back-to-school prices.  When carrier-grade
and large scale is not essential, 3GHz Pentium class servers in hardened rack mount chassis can be
used at a fraction of the cost, and yet outperform, other solutions.  Where carrier-grade is
necessary, embedded Linux on standardized PICMG 2.16 NEBS compliant chassis make for a higher cost,
but more reliable alternative.

For details on hardware solutions, see @ref{Platform Architecture}, @ref{Hardware Architecture},
and @ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Rapid Development

The OpenSS7 Project has already developed protocol components completing the SS7 and SIGTRAN
signalling stacks including MTP Level 2 and Level 3, ISUP, SCCP, TCAP; and SCTP, M2PA, M2UA, M3UA,
SUA and TUA.  Development of a Carrier VoIP Switch to meet initial field requirements needs only the
development of some intermediate and auxillary modules.

For details on scheduling, see @ref{Logistics}.

@subsubheading An Evolving Solution

The OpenSS7 Project is evolving to support more protocol stacks including ISDN and VoIP.  Support
for an ever expanding capability is demonstrated by the additional options available as described in
@ref{Optional Application Support}, @ref{Optional Network Support},
@ref{Optional Protocol Support}, @ref{Optional Software Support},
and @ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Conclusions

In summary, an OpenSS7 Carrier VoIP Switch an excellent application of the OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stacks and
can be provided at a affordable price on short time-lines, while offering an evolution path for
future deployment applications.

@sp 4

@flushright
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
The OpenSS7 Project
@end flushright

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Document Information
@cindex Document information

@subsection Abstract
@cindex Document abstract

This document provides @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex Document objective

The objective of this document is to provide Application Notes for the development of a low cost,
high-performance, @value{MANUAL_TITLE} using OpenSS7 protocol components, software, and compatible
systems and hardware.

@subsection Intent
@cindex Document intent

The intent of this document is to act as a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for an project for an @value{MANUAL_TYPE}.
As a @value{MANUAL_TYPE}, this document discusses components and systems which are not necessarily
complete.  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any
software, system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex Document audience

This document is intended for a technical audience.  The reaser should be familiar with most most
ETSI, ITU-T and ANSI, Signalling System No. 7 recommendations, H.323, H.225, H.245, as well as IETF
drafts and RFCS for RTP, SIP, SIP-T, MEGACO, MGCP, and SIGTRAN protocols.

@subsection Revisions
@cindex Document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

@subsubsection Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: mg.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/04 08:25:00  brian
- added new files

@end smallexample

@subsubsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed or
postscript) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer
@cindex Document disclaimer

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights..  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@section Document Organization
@cindex Document organization

This document is organized as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
* Introduction::
* Application Architecture::
* Network Architecture::
* Reference Architecture::
* System Architecture::
* Platform Architecture::
* Protocol Architecture::
* Software Architecture::
* Hardware Architecture::
* Logistics::
* Optional Application Support::
* Optional Network Support::
* Optional Protocol Support::
* Optional Software Support::
* Optional Hardware Support::
* Programmatic Interfaces::
* Platform Sizing::
* Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@iftex
@table @emph
@item @ref{Introduction}
Introduction to the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} application.
@item @ref{Application Architecture}
The application requirements and architecture.
@item @ref{Network Architecture}
The network architecture for the application.
@item @ref{Reference Architecture}
The reference architecture for the application.
@item @ref{System Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} system.
@item @ref{Platform Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform.
@item @ref{Protocol Architecture}
The protocol architecture supporting the application.
@item @ref{Software Architecture}
The software architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Hardware Architecture}
The hardware architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Logistics}
Project logistics for completion of the VoIP GW application.
@item @ref{Optional Application Support}
Additional application support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Network Support}
Additional network interface support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Protocol Support}
Additional protocol component support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Software Support}
Additional software support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Hardware Support}
Additional hardware support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Programmatic Interfaces}
Programmatic interfaces to selected protocol components.
@item @ref{Platform Sizing}
Detailed platform sizing considerations.
@item @ref{Index}
Index of concepts.
@end table
@end iftex


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for a  patform to provide scalable @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
capabilities.  The primary driver for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} is to provide a system capable of
interconnecting a VoIP backbone to the PSTN using SS7.  This document provide a high-level design
and proposal for a production system to provide this capability at a number of scale points.

The proposal utilizes, where possible, existing OpenSS7 protocol stack components and provides a
development plan for components that are specific to the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} initial requirements.

This document discusses the resulting software configuration that will be put in place on the
production system, the platform configuration for the production system, and a network configuration
for deployment.  Also discussed is an overview of the project management logistics for successful
completion over the course of this development project.

It is intended that the document be a ``living'' document, that is updated over the course of this
development project.

@menu
* The OpenSS7 Media Gateway::
* Project Drivers::
* Scope::
@end menu

@node The OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@section The OpenSS7 Media Gateway
@cindex The OpenSS7 Media Gateway

This project provides an @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform that provides interconnection to the PSTN
using TDM circuits and is capable of routng call to and from the PSTN and a VoIP backbone network
using @dfn{hard switching}, physical circuit switching, or @dfn{soft switching}, RTP transport.

@node Project Drivers
@section Project Drivers
@cindex Project drivers

The lead purpose of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} is to provide PSTN interconnection to an existing VoIP
backbone deployment infrastructure that lacks same.

@node Scope
@section Scope
@cindex Scope

Because of early deployment drivers yet requirements for scale, the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform is
constructed using standardized PICMG 2.16 telephony hardware in a NEBS 3/ETSI compliant chassis
providing carrier-grade serviceability and reliability.  Non-carrier-grade platforms utilizing
commodity PC hardware for lower scale installations are possible.

@menu
* Phases::
* Gates::
@end menu

@node Phases
@subsection Phases
@cindex Project phases

The longer term project is broken into the following phases:

@table @dfn
@item Phase 1
@item Phase 2
@item Phase 3
@item Phase 4
@item Phase 5
@end table

Although some reference is made to capabilities supporting other phases, @dfn{Phase 1} and
@dfn{Phase 2} are the focus of this document.

@node Gates
@subsection Gates
@cindex Project gates

Each phase of the project consists of seven gates.  The seven gates are defined as follows:

@table @dfn

@item Gate 0 --- Concept

@noindent
@dfn{Gate 0} is passed when the initial concept has been elucidated and work is begun on a
High-Level Design.  This is an internal OpenSS7 gate.

@item Gate 1 --- High Level Design

@dfn{Gate 1} is passed when the high-level design has been reviewed to the satisfaction of the
consumers of the project.  This is an external review gate.  OpenSS7 internally passes this gate
once the High-Level Design has been published and work is begun on a detailed design.
@footnote{This document is a High-Level Design an Proposal document and it meets the internal
requirements for passing Gate 1 of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the VoIP GW project.  An external review of
this document by a Beta or Gamma client or sponsor is pending.}

@item Gate 2 --- Detailed Design

@dfn{Gate 2} is passed when the detailed design has been reviewed to the satisfaction of the
consumers of the project and the developers on the project.  This is an external as well as an
internal review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate once the Detailed Design has been published and work
base begin on development and implementation of the design.
@footnote{OpenSS7 requires a contractual commitment for purchase from a Beta or Gamma client, or
funding from a Sponsor of the OpenSS7 Project, before this gate can be passed and development
started.}
Passing this gate moves from the design stage to the development stage of the project.

@item Gate 3 --- Development and Implementation

@dfn{Gate 3} is passed when the software and systems development and implementation to the detailed
design is complete and testing has begun.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7 internally
passes this gate when software is code complete and hardware has been installed for testing.

@item Gate 4 --- System Test

@dfn{Gate 4} is passed once the product implementation meets all internal ad hoc and formal
conformance test suites and internal testing is complete.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7
passes this gate internally once conformance testing is complete.  Passing this gate moves from the
development stage to the support stage of the project.

@item Gate 5 --- Acceptance Test

@dfn{Gate 5} is passed once the product implementation has passed external Gamma client acceptance
testing.  This is an external review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate internally once participation
in external acceptance testing is complete.

@item Gate 6 --- Project Complete

@dfn{Gate 6} is passed once all support obligations for the product implementation have been
discharged.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate once support agreements have
terminated.

@end table

For more details on Gate scheduling for Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the project, @pxref{Schedule}.

@node Application Architecture
@chapter Application Architecture
@cindex Application architecture

The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} is intendend to provide high-performance and high-density PSTN to VoIP
backbone gateway.

@section Application Requirements

Application requirements have been broken into 5 phases using the timeboxing approach.

@subsection Phase 1 Requirements

Phase 1 requirements provide a VoIP gateway capability that will connect an existing H.323 VoIP
network to the PSTN using SS7 ISUP trunks.

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 2 Requirements

Phase 2 requirements provide SIP-T capabilities.

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 3 Requirements

Phase 3 requirements provide network service capabilities.

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 4 Requirements

Phase 4 requirements expose internal interfaces to provide softswitch capabilities.

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 5 Requirements

Phase 5 requirements complete full VoIP (NGN) switching.

@itemize ---
@end itemize

@section Solution Architecture

Although the functions of @dfn{Media Gateway Controller}, @dfn{Media Gateway} and @dfn{Signalling
Gateway} have been decomposed, and in the past these functional groups have been implemented on
separate physical platforms, modern compute capacity and densities permit these functions to be
integrated into a single physical platform without limitation.  Open standard interfaces are
utilized internal to the platform to permit a decomposed model to be split out and to permit ETSI
Tiphon Version 4 compatiblity as well as Multi-Services Forum Version 2 compatibility.

@subsection OpenSS7 Media Gateway for Deployment

In light of the foregoing, the solution architecture takes the form of an integrated media gateway
capable of providing a number of functional groups in the traditional models.  The OpenSS7 Media
Gateway integrates the following functional groups while still permitting standard interfaces to be
exposed for maximum deployment flexibility:

@itemize ---
@item
@item
@item
@item
@end itemize

@section Call Flows

This section provides some illustrative application call flows:@footnote{This section is not
intended as a @dfn{Detailed Design}, but provides illustration only for these
@dfn{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}}.}

@node Network Architecture
@chapter Network Architecture
@cindex Network architecture



@node Programmatic Interfaces
@appendix Programmatic Interfaces
@cindex Programmatic interfaces

@node Platform Sizing
@appendix Platform Sizing
@cindex Platform sizing

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
