'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strtty.5.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/10/12 09:37:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/12 09:37:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strtty.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/12 09:37:38  brian
.\" - completed much of the strtty package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:47:16  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/06 12:19:01  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/29 11:40:05  brian
.\" - new files for strtty package and manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strtty.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strtty.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRTTY 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that
implement the classical
.IR "SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
kernel modules and drivers:
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B streams_pty.ko
driver
.RI \(lq /dev/ptmx \(rq,
.RI \(lq /dev/pts/0 \(rq.
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.B streams_ptem.ko
module
.RI \(lq ptem \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B streams_pckt.ko
module
.RI \(lq pckt \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B streams_ldterm.ko
module
.RI \(lq ldterm \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B streams_ttcompat.ko
module
.RI \(lq ttcompat \(rq.
.PD
.TP
.BR pty (4)
The
.BR pty (4)
driver is a Pseudo-Terminal Driver that provides the classical
.IR UNIX \(rg
master and slave pseudo-terminals.
.IP ""
This driver is complete but untested.
.TP
.BR ptem (4)
The
.BR ptem (4)
module is a Pseudo-Terminal Emulation Module that provide
hardware terminal emulation for the slave side of a Pseudo-Terminal provided
by the
.BR pty (4)
driver.  This module is pushed over the slave side of a
pseudo-terminal before pusing
.BR ldterm (4).
.IP ""
This module is complete but untested.
.TP
.BR pckt (4)
The
.BR pckt (4)
module is a Packet Module.  This is the classical
.IR UNIX \(rg
packetization module that is pushed over the master side of a pseudo-terminal
to allow the master to view the detailed state of the pseudo-terminal.
.IP ""
This module is complete but untested.
.TP
.BR ldterm (4)
The
.BR ldterm (4)
module is a Line Discipline Terminal Module.  This
is the classical
.IR UNIX \(rg
line discipline module for terminals.  This module
is pushed last on the slave side of a psuedo-terminal, after
.BR ptem (4)
and
provides the
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
terminal interface to the user.
.IP ""
This module is incomplete.
.TP
.BR ttcompat (4)
The
.BR ttcompat (4)
module is a TTY Compatibility Module.  This is a module that
provides
.IR UNIX \(rg " Version 7"
and
.I 4BSD
compatible terminal interfaces.  These
interfaces are no longer in use and this module has only marginal value.
.IP ""
This module is incomplete.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:
.TP
.BR libtty (3)
The
.BR libtty (3)
library provides replacements for
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
terminal handling
functions that are not properly implemented in
`glibc'.  These functions are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBunlockpt\fR(3tty)\(em'u
.BR openpt (3tty)
\-\ open a master pseudo-terminal
.PD 0
.TP
.BR ptsname (3tty)
\-\ obtain name for slave device
.TP
.BR grantpt (3tty)
\-\ grant access to the slave device
.TP
.BR unlockpt (3tty)
\-\ unlock the pseudo-terminal
.PD
.RE
.PP
This library is incomplete.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I "SVR 4.2"
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I "SVR 4.2"
.I STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is currently incomplete.  It is being released as a reference
point for the community.  If you are interested in completion of this package,
contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.HP
.BR grantpt (3tty)\ \-\ \c
grant access to a slave pseudo-terminal device.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR ptsname (3tty)\ \-\ \c
get the file system path to a slave pseudo-terminal device.
.HP
.BR unlockpt (3tty)\ \-\ \c
unlock a slave pseudo-terminal device.
.HP
.BR ldterm (4)\ \-\ \c
Line Discipline \fISTREAMS\fR module.
.HP
.BR pckt (4)\ \-\ \c
Packet mode \fISTREAMS\fR module.
.HP
.BR ptc (4)\ \-\ \c
controlling pty device.
.HP
.BR ptem (4)\ \-\ \c
Pseudo-Terminal Emulation Module.
.HP
.BR ptm (4)\ \-\ \c
Master pseudo-terminal driver.
.HP
.BR ptmx (4tty)\ \-\ \c
Master pseduo-terminal \fBclone\fR(4) device.
.HP
.BR pts (4tty)\ \-\ \c
Slave pseudo-terminal driver.
.HP
.BR pty (4)\ \-\ \c
Pseudo-terminal drivers.
.HP
.BR ttcompat (4)\ \-\ \c
TTY compatibility \fISTREAMS\fR module.
.HP
.BR strtty (5)\ \-\ \c
The \fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@\fR package.
.HP
.BR strtty_mknod (8)\ \-\ \c
create \fB@PACKAGE@\fR device nodes.
.HP
.BR test-tty (8)\ \-\ \c
test case executable for the \fB@PACKAGE@\fR package.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B strtty
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.HP
.BR pckt (4)\ \-\ \c
Packet Mode module.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR ptem (4)\ \-\ \c
Pseudo-terminal Emulation modules.
.HP
.BR ldterm (4)\ \-\ \c
Line Discipline for Terminals module.
.HP
.BR ttcompat (4)\ \-\ \c
Teletypewriter compatibiltiy module.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B strtty
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
drivers:
.HP
.BR pty (4)\ \-\ \c
Pseudo-terminal device driver.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR grantpt (3tty),
.BR ptsname (3tty),
.BR unlockpt (3tty),
.BR ldterm (4),
.BR pckt (4),
.BR ptc (4),
.BR ptem (4),
.BR ptm (4),
.BR ptmx (4tty),
.BR pts (4tty),
.BR pty (4),
.BR ttcompat (4),
.BR strtty (5),
.BR strtty_mknod (8),
.BR test-tty (8).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH COMPATIBILITY
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONFORMANCE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH HISTORY
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
