@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2006/08/27 12:27:20 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/27 12:27:20 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains header files and a number of modules and drivers
and the associated documentation that were formerly contained in the @cite{OpenSS7 Linux STREAMS
(LiS)} releases.  When development started on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} in 2003, these modules were
removed from the @cite{LiS} distribution and separated so that they could build against both the
@cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} packages from the same baseline code.

The package contains the following standard @cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} conforming header
files:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/cdi.h>} @cite{Communications Device Interface}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/dlpi.h>} @cite{Data Link Provider Interface Version 2.0.0}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/npi.h>} @cite{Network Provider Interface Version 2.0.0}
@end multitable

Note that the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)} header files are contained in the
@command{strxnet} package.

The package currently includes the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_link_driver.ko} @file{/dev/ldl}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ip_to_dlpi.ko} @file{/dev/ip2xinet}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ip_strms.ko} @file{module}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_np_ip.ko} @file{/dev/np_ip} @file{/dev/ipcl} @file{/dev/ipco}
@end multitable

@table @manref
@item ldl(4)
The @manpage{ldl(4)} driver attempts to provide a @cite{Data Link Provider (DLPI)} interface to an
existing Ethernet driver under Linux.  This driver was orignally written by Ole Husgaard and
subsequently modified by Dave Grothe and later by Brian Bidulock of @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,
The OpenSS7 Project}.  It is distributed under the terms of the @cite{GNU Public License (GPL)
Version 2}.

@item ip2xnet(4)
The @manpage{ip2xnet(4)} driver attempts the reverse: to take a STREAMS Ethernet driver that supports
the @cite{Data Link Provider (DLPI)} interface and link it underneath the @manpage{ip2xnet(4)}
multiplexing driver to make it available for use by the Linux IP subsystem.  The driver was
originally written by @cite{The Software Group Ltd.} and subsequently modified by Brian Bidulock of
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.  It was originally distributed under the terms
of the @cite{LGPL}, but is distributed by @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} under the terms of the
@cite{GNU Public License (GPL) Version 2}.

@item ip_strms(4)
The @manpage{ip_strms(4)} module is similar to the @manpage{ip2xnet(4)} driver, however, this is a
module that is pushed over the @cite{DLPI} Stream corresponding to the @cite{Data Link Provider
(DLPI)} driver instead of linking the @cite{DLPI} Stream under a multiplexing driver as is done with
the @manpage{ip2xnet(4)} driver.  Both have a similar effect.  The module was originally written by
Mikel Matthews and Dave Grothe and subsequently modified by Brian Bidulock of
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.  It was originally distributed under the terms
of the @cite{LGPL}, but is distributed by @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} under the terms of the
@cite{GNU Public License (GPL) Version 2}.

@item np_ip(4)
The @manpage{np_ip(4)} driver provides a @dfn{Network Service Provider} using the @cite{Network
Provider Interface (NPI) Revision 2.0.0} service interface to the Linux IP subsystem.  The driver
was originally written by Brian Bidulock for the OpenSS7 project for the purpose of testing
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} and other direct IP based protocols.
@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{X/Open Network Services (XNS)} protocol stack components and
applications for the @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targetted
at @samp{ix86}, @samp{x86_64}, @samp{ppc} and @samp{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

