@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.24 2007/03/26 08:46:10 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/26 08:46:10 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3.rc3::		Release 3 Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the OpenSS7 Project's fifth separate release from the OpenSS7 Project of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  These networking modules provide
DLPI, NPI and Linux IP drivers, as well as providing CDI, DLPI and NPI header
files.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for XNS components in a separate autoconf tarball.

This release is primarily a maintenance release supporting recent distributions
and tool chains.  This release is a stable production release.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 kernel.

@item
Suport for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.5

This is the OpenSS7 Project's fifth separate release from the OpenSS7 Project of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  These networking modules provide
DLPI, NPI and Linux IP drivers, as well as providing CDI, DLPI and NPI header
files.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for XNS components in a separate autoconf tarball.

This release is primarily a maintenance release supporting recent distributions
and tool chains.  This release is a stable production release for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 1.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kernels.

@item
The package now looks for other subpackages with a version number as unpacked by
separate tarball.

@end itemize
@ignore

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 2}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070315_F.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.4

This is the OpenSS7 Project's fourth separate release from the OpenSS7 Project
of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, formerly part of the (now
deprecated) Linux STREAMS (LiS) package.  These networking modules provide
DLPI, NPI and Linux IP drivers, as well as providing CDI, DLPI and NPI header
files.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for XNS components in a separate autoconf tarball.

This release is both a maintenance release and a feature release.  The major
new feature added is a fully @dfn{STREAMS} based implementation of the
@manpage{np_ip(4)} driver.  This release is a stable production release for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  Support for @cite{LiS} is deprecated as of this
release.

The release provides the following enhancements and fixes:

@itemize -
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patchset).

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions to all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device number
230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.  Package
will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE}} now supports expanded
addressable minor device numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per
major device number on 2.6 kernels: @cite{LiS} cannot support this change.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions:
support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9
SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static libraries,
manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.
@end itemize
@ignore

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 2}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070108_F.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3.rc3

@itemize -
@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.

@item
This release candidate provides support for additional SuSE distributions on
ix86 as well as x86_64.  Added distribution support includes SLES 9, SLES 9
SP2, SLES 9 SP3, SLES 10, SuSE 10.1.

@item
Added @samp{--enable-devel} @command{configure} option for embedded targets.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

@itemize -
@item
Changes necessary for __LP64__ compatible builds.  Changes to support 32-bit
ioctl compatibility for __LP64__ architectures.  Binary compatibility should
not have been disrupted.  At the same time as the ioctl32 changes, TRANSPARENT
ioctl support for most of the IO controls for the ldl(4) driver has been
added.

@item
Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.

@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@item
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.

@item
Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630
Hyper-Threaded SMP on x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons
even with Hyper-Threading enabled.

@item
Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibility over 64-bit on x86_64.
Should apply well to other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

This is a public beta test release of the package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2

This is primarily a bug fixes release.  This release has been tested to build
and install against both @file{LiS-2.18.2} and @file{streams-0.7a.4} on both
2.4 and 2.6 kernels as well as the @cite{Nex@-us@-Ware} cross-build
environment.

This package is still largely untested and does not yet have a test suite.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other @cite{OpenSS7} package releases.  All
@cite{RPM} release numbers will be @samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all
@cite{Debian} release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches
and release the package, please bump up the release number and apply a
suitable release suffix for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release
number @samp{_1} reserved for your use, so you can still bundle the source in
the @file{.dsc} file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and
popular distributions based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution
support.  The package also supports both @file{LiS-2.18.1} as well as
@file{streams-0.7a} on both kernels.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

