@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2006/08/26 14:38:05 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/26 14:38:05 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
I want to write a NetFilter pseudo-device driver that will install and control netfilter hooks for
performance testing.  It will do things like packet drops, checksum errors, packet duplication,
packet delay, and combinations, for a specified range of addresses and/or protocols.  Also a set of
user-space utilities (C language programs) to permit the control of the filters.  The purpose is to
be able to do a wide range of performance testing on simulated networks that are simply loopback
devices.  This would permit performance test programs (such as netperf) to be used for testing
special network conditions on SCTP (for example), and will also allow for comparison tests.
@end itemize

@itemize @bullet
@item
The strxns package contains several GPL'd modules and drivers originally included in the LiS
releases that were removed to this package so that they could be used with both LiS and Linux
Fast-STREAMS.
@end itemize

@itemize @minus
@item
Test.  Almost none of the modules or drivers in this package have been tested throuroughly against
either LiS or Linux Fast-STREAMS.  One of the primary reasons for this is that The OpenSS7 Project
does not really use any of these modules or drivers.

@item
Write an NPI interface driver to the Linux IP subsystem.  That is, the rough NPI equivalent of a raw
IP TPI Stream.

The purpose of this driver is twofold:

@enumerate 1
@item
The OpenSS7 Project has need for a RTP (Real-Time Transport Protocol) and, because RTP runs over
UDP, it is necessary to intercept packets ahead of UDP at the IP level to avoid opening Sockets from
inside the kernel.  This NPI IP driver would accomplish that feat.  This would also permit 1 Stream
to be opened but which communicates on many RTP channels.

@item
The OpenSS7 Project has a need for direct interface and interception (drop and insert) capabilities
at the IP level for the purposes of testing both RTP and SCTP.  This later purpose is less critical
because Ferry-Clip testing can be rigged to RTP and SCTP to acheive the same effect.

@item
Although the STREAMS SCTP driver directly interfaces with the IP subsystem at the driver-kernel
interface, it might be of some advantage to make SCTP a pushable module that simply pushes over one
of these NPI IP Streams.  The ability to bind to multiple addresses and multiple protocols would be
of use to SCTP.

@item
If we can find some sort of standardized interface semantics (perhaps by examining OpenSolaris), it
might be possible to make many of The OpenSS7 Project drivers, such as RTP and SCTP immediately
portable to other operating systems with STREAMS such as Solaris, pSOS, VxWorks, LynxOS, etc.
(Errr... no.  After examining OpenSolaris IP code, it is so messed up that there is no good way to
interface to it except at the kernel level.  However, the approach might still be valid for
portability because the Operating System dependent procedures could be encapsultated in the NPI IP
driver and then only the NPI IP driver needs to be ported, and not the other upper-layer protocols.
Yes, the approach still has some validity.)
@end enumerate

@emph{*done*}

The np_ip driver performs many of these functions now.  Test suites for the driver are also
provided.

@item
This might be a useful place to drop all of the DLPI drivers from the strss7 package, particularly
those for X.25, Frame Relay, and ISDN LAPD and LAPB.
@end itemize


