'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strconf_config.5.man,v 1.1.4.3 2006/04/05 09:42:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strconf_config.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.3  2006/04/05 09:42:39  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCONF_CONFIG 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strconf.config
\- LiS STREAMS strconf configuration file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


.SS "Driver Specification"
.PP
.PP
The Driver Specification is used for specifying STREAMS character special file
drivers to
.BR strconf (8).
The format of the Driver Specification is as follows:
.HP 12
.BI "driver " driver-name " " prefix " " major " " minors
.PP
The components of the specification are interpreted as follows:
.TP 12
.B driver
The keyword
.B driver
introduces this entry.
.TP 12
.I driver-name
is the name of the STREAMS driver (not pushable module), for example
.IR loop-around .
It is any string of characters not including white-space characters.
.TP 12
.I prefix
is alphanumeric plus underscore, and will be prefixed to any table entries
referencing variables within this driver.  For example, the prefix
.I loop_
will be used to derive the reference to the
.B streamtab
entry
.IR loop_info .
The driver must have a variable declared within it by the name
.IB prefix info
of type
.B streamtab
structure.
.TP 12
.I major
specifies the major device number that will be assigned to the device.  The
character
.I \(lq*\(rq
means that the config program will choose the
.I major
number.
A numeric value is used as it is given.
.TP 12
.I minors
is the number of minors the device has.  If this field is omitted, the number
1 will be used.  The value of this field isnot used for anything except to
generate a
.B #define
in the
.B config.h
output file.
.TP 4
Example:

.nf
driver loop-around loop_ *
.fi

This declares a driver which has the name
.I loop-around
for reference purposes within the
.BR strconf (8)
program.  Its prefix is
.IR loop_ ,
and the
.BR strconf (8)
program is to assign its major device number.

.SS "Module Specification"
.PP
.PP
The Module Specification is used for specifying pushable STREAMS modules to
.BR strconf (8).
The format of the Module Specification is as follows:
.HP 12
.BI "module " name " " prefix
.PP
The components of the specification are interpreted as follows:
.TP 12
.B module
The keyword
.B module
introduces this entry.
.TP 12
.I name
is the name of the module, for example
.IR relay-mod .
It is any string of characters not including white-space characters.
.TP 12
.I prefix
is alphanumeric plus underscore, and will be prefixed to any table entries
referencing variables wihtin this module.  For example, the prefix
.I relay_
will be used to derive the reference to the
.B streamtab
entry
.IR relay_info .
The module must have a variable declared within it by the name
.IB prefix info
of type
.B streamtab
structure.
.TP 4
Example:

.nf
module relay-mod relay_
.fi

This example declares a pushable module to be referred to internally as
.IR relay-mod .
Its prefix is
.IR relay_ .


.SS "Node Specificaton"
.PP
.PP
The Node Specification is used for specifying which STREAMS character special
files must be created to
.BR strconf (8).
The format of the Node Specification is as follows:
.HP 12
.BI "node " dev-name " " type " " perm " " major " " minor
.PP
The components of the specification are interpreted as follows:
.TP 12
.B node
The keyword
.B node
introduces this entry.
.TP 12
.I dev-name
.TP 12
.I type
.TP 12
.I perm
.TP 12
.I major
.TP 12
.I minor

.SS "Device Specifications"
.PP
.PP
The Device Specification specifies charactersitics about device drivers to
.BR strconf (8).
The format of the Device Specification is as follows:
.HP 12
.BI "device " driver-name " " unit " " port " " nports " " irq-share " " irq " " mem " " mem-size " " dma1 " " dma2
.PP
The components of the specification are interpreted as follows:
.TP 12
.B device
The keyword
.B device
introduces this entry.
.TP 12
.I driver-name
.TP 12
.I unit
.TP 12
.I port
.TP 12
.I nports
.TP 12
.I irq-share
.TP 12
.I irq
.TP 12
.I mem
.TP 12
.I mem-size
.TP 12
.I dma1
.TP 12
.I dma2

.SS "Driver Initialization Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B initialize
.TP 12
.I driver-name

.SS "Driver Termination Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B terminate
.TP 12
.I driver-name

.SS "Driver Interrupt Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B interrupt
.TP 12
.I driver-name

.SS "Object Name Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B objname
.TP 12
.I type
.TP 12
.I name
.TP 12
.I object-name

.SS "Loadable Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B loadable
.TP 12
.I object-name

.SS "Autopush Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B autopush
.TP 12
.I driver-name
.TP
.I minor
.TP
.I last-minor
.TP
.I module-list

.SS "Tunable Parameter Specification"
.PP
.TP 12
.B define
.TP 12
.I name
.TP 12
.I value
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
