'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ifrstat.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2009-05-03 10:54:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-05-03 10:54:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ifrstat.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2009-05-03 10:54:44  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IFRSTAT 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ifrstat
\- display Frame Relay statistics
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)ifrstat\fP\ 'u
\fB\)ifrstat\fP [\fB-d\fP] \fB-s\fP\ \fIsubnet\fP [\fB-c\fP\ \fIcircuit\fP|\fB-S\fP] [\fB-i\fP|\fB-m\fP|\fB-w\fP] [\fB-d\fP\ \fIdevice\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)ifrstat\fP \fB-z\fP \fB-s\fP\ \fIsubnet\fP [\fB-c\fP\ \fIcircuit\fP|\fB-S\fP] [\fB-i\fP|\fB-m\fP|\fB-w\fP] [\fB-d\fP\ \fIdevice\fP] [\fIoptions\fP]
.HP
\fB\)ifrstat\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ifrstat\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ifrstat\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ifrstat
is a command for obtaining statistics and status of the various components of
the Frame Relay stack.  The \fB-w\fP option is used to obtain subnet
information about a WAN communications interface (Raw HDLC), from the
.BR wan (4),
or equivalent, driver.  The \fB-m\fP option is used to obtain subnet
information about a MFE communications interface and DLCI (Multiprotocol over
Frame Relay Encapsulation), from the
.BR mfe (4),
or equivalent, driver.  The \fB-i\fP option (or no driver type option) is used
to obtain subnet information about an IFR communications interface and DLCI
(Frame Relay), from the
.BR ifr (4),
or equivalent, driver.
The \fB-S\fP option is used to obtain subnet status, for each VC active on the
subnet, from the
.BR ifr (4),
or equivalent, driver.
.PP
Statistics and status information is displayed on \fIstdout\fP.
.B ifrstat
also has the ability to clear the given statistics using the \fB-z\fP option.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are supported by the
.B ifrstat
command:
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following are the mutually exclusive command options that determine major
operating modes for the command:  (When no command option is given \fB-d\fP is
assumed.)
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--display\fP
Display statistics.  If neither \fB-d\fP nor \fB-z\fP are given, \fB-d\fP is
assumed.
.TP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--zero\fP
Also zero the statistics that would have been displayed.  Use of this option
might require superuser privilege or similar permissions.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, usage information is printed to \fIstdout\fP,
option processing stops, and the program exits successfully without taking any
further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, version information is printed to \fIstdout\fP,
option processing stops, and the program exits successfully without taking any
further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, copyring permissions is printed to
\fIstdout\fP, option processing stops, and the program exits successfully
without taking any further action.
.\"
.SS Non-Command Options
.PP
The following options determine for which elements statistics are displayed:
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--subnet\fP \fIsubnet\fP
Specifies the \fIsubnet\fP (or Physical Point of Attachment (PPA)) for which
statistics are to be displayed.  When neither the \fB-c\fP nor \fB-S\fP flags
are given, only statistics corresponding to the interface will be displayed.
This option is mandatory unless \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, or \fB-C\fP are specified.
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--circuit\fP \fIcircuit\fP
Specifies the \fIcircuit\fP (or Data Link Circuit Identifier (DLCI)) for which
statitics are to be displayed.  This option is mutually exclusive with the
\fB-S\fP option.
.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--status\fP
Display status for the entire subnet (i.e. all virtual circuits associated
with the subnet).  This option is mutually exclusive with the \fB-c\fP and
\fB-z\fP options.
.PP
The following options determine for which device driver statistics are
displayed:
.TP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--ifr\fP
Specifies that Frame Relay driver,
.BR ifr (4),
statistics are to be displayed for the specified subnetwork and virtual circuit(s).
Only one of \fB-i\fP, \fB-m\fP, \fB-w\fP need be specified.  If none are
specified, \fB-i\fP is assumed.
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--mfe\fP
Specifies that Multiprotocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation driver,
.BR mfe (4),
statistics are to be displayed for the specified subnetwork and virtual circuit(s).
Only one of \fB-i\fP, \fB-m\fP, \fB-w\fP need be specified.  If none are
specified, \fB-i\fP is assumed.
.TP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--wan\fP
Specifies that WAN (Raw HDLC) driver,
.BR wan (4),
statistics are to be displayed for the specified subnetwork and virtual circuit(s).
Only one of \fB-i\fP, \fB-m\fP, \fB-w\fP need be specified.  If none are
specified, \fB-i\fP is assumed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevice\fP
Use the specified \fIdevice\fP name as the device to open.  When not given,
the default is \fB/dev/ifr\fP for \fB--ifr\fP, \fB/dev/mfe\fP for \fB--mfe\fP,
and \fB/dev/wan\fP for \fB--wan\fP.  See also \*(lq\fIDEVICES\fP,\*(rq below.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following are common options that tune the output:
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppresses normal output.  This is the same as \fB--verbose\fP=\fB0\fP.
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the debug verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default debug
\fIlevel\fP is zero (0).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no debugging output.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the output verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default output
\fIlevel\fP is one (1).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no normal output.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
IFR DLCI statistics (no \fB-c\fP option) output is of the following form:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
########################################################################
#                         Statistics for PPA A                         #
########################################################################

PPA txpkts rxpkts txbytes rxbytes wanflows    date-cleared
  A    184    184    2576    2886        0 May 11 14:12:43

rxtoobig rxinvDLCI runaDLCI txstops txnobuffs txinvrq rxdrops rxinvrq
       0         0        0       0         0       0       0       0

LMItxpoll LMIwnflow rxfull rxseqonly rxasynch rxCLLM rxLMIerr LMItimout
      184         0     31       153        0      0        0         0

LMIrxpoll txfull tseqonly txasynch txCLLM rxpoller
        0      0        0        0      0        0
\s+1
.fi
.PP
IFR statistics (\fB-c\fP option) output is of the following form:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
########################################################################
#                    Statistics for PPA A, DLCI 32                     #
########################################################################

txpkts rxpkts txbytes rxbytes txstp rxstp FECN BECN status date-cleared
   184    184    2576    2886     0     0    0    0    102 May 11 14:12

cirlowat 32000  cirhiat 32000
\s+1
.fi
.PP
IFR subnet status (\fB-S\fP option) output is of the following form:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
########################################################################
#                      Status Report for PPA A                         #
########################################################################
Network status (LMI):ALL OK

DLCIs :
       40 :    ACTIVE
       32 :    ACTIVE
\s+1
.fi
.PP
MFE statistics (\fB-m\fP option) output is of the following form:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
########################################################################
#                 MFE Statistics for PPA A, DLCI 32                    #
########################################################################
3       VC state (3 = working)
0       PDUs succesfully sent
0       Outgoing PDUs fragmented
0       Fragmentation errors
0       Fragments successfully sent
0       Outgoing PDUs discarded
0       Transmission flow controlled
0       PDUs successfully received
0       Fragmented PDUs received
0       Fragments received
0       Missing fragment(s) detected
0       Incoming PDUs too large
0       Incoming PDUs/fragments discarded
\s+1
.fi
.PP
WAN statistics (\fB-w\fP option) output is of the following form:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
########################################################################
#                      WAN Statistics for PPA A                        #
########################################################################
6       good frames transmitted
0       transmit underruns
6       good frames received
0       receive overruns
0       receive CRC/Framing errors
0       Rx frames with no buffer
0       Rx frames with no flow control
0       receive buffer overflows
0       receive aborts
\s+1
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ifr (4),
.BR mfe (4),
.BR wan (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ifrstats
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ifrstats
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
A version of this command is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with systems that require it.  Neither this command nor the
.BR x25netd (8)
are recommended for configuration of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
subsystems.  Use the SNMP agent instead.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR ifrstats
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents printing the output to a file when a
.I filename
is specified with the
.B -G
command option.  This is an enhancement of this implementation.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " and " -C
options.  They will not be used by portable command scripts. 
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards (GNITS);
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.B ifrstats
attempts to be source (and script) compatible with historical implementations
based on
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" ,
however, binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatability
acheived is likely to be removed in a subsequent release.
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR ifr (4),
.BR mfe (4),
.BR wan (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ifrstats
first appeared in
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
