'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ixemap.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-01 12:31:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:31:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ixemap.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-01 12:31:06  brian
.\" - updated man pages, drafts, specs, header files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IXEMAP 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ixemap
\- configure X.25 address and IP address mapping
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP \w'\fBixemap\fP\ 'u
\fBixemap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-D\fP|\fB--delete\fP}
{\fB-a\fP|\fB--address\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIip_address\fP
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBixemap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-G\fP|\fB--get\fP}
{\fB-a\fP|\fB--address\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIip_address\fP
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
.HP
\fBixemap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-M\fP|\fB--list\fP}
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
.HP
\fBixemap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-P\fP|\fB--load\fP}
[{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIfilename\fP]
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
.HP
\fBixemap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
[{\fB-Z\fP|\fB--zero\fP}]
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
.HP
\fBixemap\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBixemap\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBixemap\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\".PP
.\"There are a number of automatic translation schemes for translating IP
.\"addresses into OSI NSAPs.
.\".TP
.\".B RFC 1069
.\".[
.\"rfc1069
.\".]
.\".RS
.\".TS
.\"tab(:);
.\"lw(14n)l.
.\"47:AFI (ICD Binary)
.\"0006:IDI/ICD (Internet ICD)
.\"02:DFI Version
.\"00:Global Area
.\"00000000000000:Padding
.\"AABBCCDD:IPv4 address
.\"00:Nsel
.\".TE
.\".PP
.\".nf
.\"470006020000000000000000AABBCCDD00
.\".fi
.\".PP
.\"Or, in 2/6/1 format:
.\".TS
.\"tab(:);
.\"lw(14n)l.
.\"47:AFI (ICD Binary)
.\"0006:IDI/ICD (Internet ICD)
.\"02:DFI Version
.\"00:Global Area
.\"XXXX:Routing Domain
.\"000000:Padding
.\"XX:Area Code
.\"AABBCCDDPPPP:IPv4 address and Port
.\"00:Nsel
.\".TE
.\".PP
.\".nf
.\"4700060200XXXX000000XXAABBCCDDPPPP00
.\".fi
.\".RE
.\".TP
.\".B RFC 1236
.\".[
.\"rfc1236
.\".]
.\".TP
.\".B RFC 1277
.\".[
.\"rfc1277
.\".]
.\"These are RFC 1006
.\".[
.\"rfc1006
.\".]
.\"NSAPs.
.\".RS
.\".TS
.\"tab(:);
.\"lw(14n)l.
.\"54:AFI (F.69 Decimal)
.\"00:F.69 prefix
.\"728722:Hypothetical telex number
.\"03:Prefix (RFC1006)
.\"AAABBBCCCDDD:IPv4 address (decimal)
.\"PPPPP:Port number (decimal)
.\"TTTTT:Transport selection mask (1 TCP, 2 UDP, 4 SCTP)
.\".TE
.\".PP
.\".nf
.\"540072872203AAABBBCCCDDDPPPPPTTTTT
.\".fi
.\".RE
.\".TP
.\".B RFC 4548
.\".[
.\"rfc4548
.\".]
.\".RS
.\".TS
.\"tab(:);
.\"lw(14n)l.
.\"47:AFI (IANA ICP Binary)
.\"0001:IPv4 (IPv6 is 0000)
.\"AABBCCDD:IPv4 address (binary)
.\"PPPP:Port number (set to zero)
.\"000000000000000000000000:Padding
.\".TE
.\".PP
.\".nf
.\"470001AABBCCDDPPPP000000000000000000000000
.\".fi
.\".RE
.\".TP
.\".B ISO/IEC 8802-2
.\".[
.\"iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.\".]
.\"Typical trick for specifying a local NSAP for LLC operation:
.\".RS
.\".TS
.\"tab(:);
.\"lw(14n)l.
.\"49:AFI (Local Binary)
.\"--:IDI (NULL)
.\"XXXX:Routing Domain/Area Code (Subnetwork)
.\"HHHHHHHHHHHH:MAC Address
.\"00:NSel
.\".TE
.\".PP
.\".nf
.\"49XXXXHHHHHHHHHHHH00
.\".fi
.\".RE
.\".TP
.\".B ISO/IEC 10030
.\".[
.\"iso/iec 10030 : 1995
.\".]
.\"An End System (ES) can request that an NSAP (NET) be assigned to it from an
.\"Intermediate System (IS) or SNARE.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--delete\fP
Delete the address mapping identified by the \fIip_address\fP argument to the
\fB-a\fP option.  The \fB-a\fP option must be specified.
.TP
\fB-G\fP, \fB--get\fP
Display the address mapping identified by the \fIip_address\fP argument to the
\fB-a\fP option.  The \fB-a\fP option must be specified.
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--list\fP
List all of the address mappings for the IXE device.
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--load\fP
Load the address mappings in the file specified by the \fIfilename\fP argument
to the \fB-f\fP option.  The \fB-f\fP option may be specified, or allowed to
default.
.TP
\fB-Z\fP, \fB--zero\fP
Zero the address mappings (that is, remove all address mappings) from the IXE
device.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together along with a command
option.  It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the
command option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--address\fP \fIip_address\fP
Specify the IPv4 address, \fIip_address\fP, for which to delete or retrieve an
address mapping.  The address mapping is deleted when the \fB-D\fP command
option is specified; retrieved for the \fB-G\fP option.  This option must be
specified whenever the \fB-D\fP or \fB-G\fP option is specified.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevicename\fP
Specify the device name upon which to operate.  When this option is not
specified, or \fIdevicename\fP is not given, the default is
.BR /dev/ixe " or " /dev/streams/ixe ,
whichever opens successfully first.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--file\fP \fIfilename\fP
Specify the configuration file that holds mapping information to apply to the
device when the \fB-P\fP command option is also specified.  When this option
is not specified, or the \fIfilename\fP is not given, the default is
.BR @configdir@/ixemapconf .
For the format of this file, see \*(lq\fIFILE FORMAT\fP\*(rq, below.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
.TP
\fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debug verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.I ixemap
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The
.B ixemap
configuration file contains information regarding the mapping between the
Internet address of network hosts and the underlying X.25 addresses.  It is
loaded into the IXE driver using
.BR ixemap .
.PP
For a Defense Data Network (DDN), X.25 addresses are directly linked to their
corresponding Internet address,
.[
rfc1236
.]
and this mapping is not used for IXE subnetworks marked for DDN addressing.
See
.BR ixetune (8)
for DDN address settings.
.PP
The default packet and window sizes from X.25 are used and therefore
.B ixemap
configuration file entries are temporary entries lasting for the duration of
the call.  These entries are added and removed automatically.
.PP
The format of the
.B @configdir@/ixemapconf
file is as follows:
.RS
.PP
.RB < in_addr >
.RB < x_addr >
.RB < pkt_siz >
.RB < win_siz >
.RB < num_vcs >
.RE
.PP
Where the fields have the following syntax:
.TP
.RB < in_addr >
Specifies the IP Version 4 Address to map to an X.25 address.  This may be
specified in standard numbers-and-dots notation, or a hostname that can be
resolved to an IP address may be specified instead.
.TP
.RB < x_addr >
Specifies the X.25 address.  This is the local X.25 address for the local station.  The X.25 address
is formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
\fIsn_id\fP\fB.\fP[\fIDTE\fP|\fILSAP\fP|\fILCI\fP]\fB.\fP[\fBN\fP|\fBX\fP|\fBP\fP]\fB.\fP[\fINSAP\fP|\fIEXT\fP]
.PP
Where the four fields of the address are as follows:
.TP
.I sn_id
Specifies the subnetwork identifier.  For most SpiderX.25 based implementations this is a single
alphabetical characeter where the first subnetwork is given the character `A', the second subnetwork
the character `B', and so on.  For
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
The first field is a link identifier.  The link identifier can be any number with a 32-bit unsigned
integer range.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
accepts both forms.
.TP
.IR DTE | LSAP | LCI
For a subnetwork connection that consists of a LAN (LLC2) interface, only the LSAP is permitted.
For a subnetwork that consists of a WAN (LAPB) interface, only the DTE or LCI or neither (no DTE or
LCI) is permitted.
.RS
.TP \w'\fILSAP\fP\(em'u
.I DTE
Specifies a DTE address.  This field can be 0 to 15 digits in length when TOA/NPI addressing is not
used and 2 to 17 digits in length when TOA/NPI addressing is used.  TOA/NPI addressing cannot be
used for X.25(80) networks.  This field is only interpreted as a DTE address when the subnetwork
type is WAN and the following field is not \*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.I LSAP
Specifies an LSAP which is always 14 hexadecimal digits in length, 12 hexadecimal digits for the MAC
address, and 2 hexadecimal digits for the SAP.  Hexadecimal digit pairs may optionally be separated
by colons (\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq).  This field is only intepreted as an LSAP address when the subnetwrok
type is LAN.
.TP
.I LCI
Specifies the LCI which is 0 to 4 decimal digits in the range from 0 to 4095.  This number
identifies the logical channel belonging to a PVC.  This field is only interpreted as an LCI when
the following field has the value \*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.BR N | X | P
When present, this field contains one alphabetical character,
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq,
\*(lq\fBX\fP\*(rq, or
\*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq,
that determines the form of the address.
.RS
.TP \w'\fBX\fP\(em'u
.B N
Specifies that the following field is an \fINSAP\fP.  This is the default.
This value can only be set for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.TP
.B X
Specifies that the following field is an \fIEXT\fP.
This value can only be set for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.TP
.B P
Specifies that the preceding field is an \fILCI\fP, and that there is no following field.
.PP
If this field is absent, and the following field is present, the following field is an \fINSAP\fP.
The intervening \*(lq.\&\*(rq is optional in this case.
.RE
.TP
.IR NSAP | EXT
This field provides the NSAP address or Address Extension. 
This field can only be present for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.RS
.TP
.I NSAP
This is a maximum 20-byte NSAP address, represented by 0 to 40 hexadecimal digits.  A colon,
\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq, can optionally be placed between any pairs of hexadecimal digits.
This field is only interpreted as an NSAP when the preceding field is absent or contains the value
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.I EXT
This is a maximum 20-byte Address Extension, represented by 0 to 40 hexadecimal digits.  A colon,
\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq, can optionally be placed between any pairs of hexadecimal digits.
This field is only interpreted as an Address Extension when the preceding field contains the value
\*(lq\fBE\fP\*(rq.
.RE
.PP
The range of X.25 addresses is limited by the underlying subnetwork type.  For each subnetwork type,
possible X.25 addresses are as follows:
.TP
.B LAN
.nf
sn_id.LSAP
sn_id.LSAP.N.NSAP
sn_id.LSAP.X.EXT
.\"sn_id.LSAP.NSAP
.\"sn_id.LSAP..NSAP
.fi
.TP
.B WAN (1980)
.nf
sn_id
sn_id.DTE
sn_id.LCI.P
.fi
.TP
.B WAN (1984+)
.nf
sn_id
sn_id.DTE
sn_id.DTE.N.NSAP
sn_id.DTE.X.EXT
sn_id..N.NSAP
sn_id..X.EXT
.\"sn_id.DTE.NSAP
.\"sn_id.DTE..NSAP
sn_id.LCI.P
.fi
.RE
.TP
.RB < pkt_siz >
Specifies the packet size, in bytes,  used to reach the X.25 destination.
This can be one of the following values:
.BR 16 ", " 32 ", " 64 ", " 128 ", " 256 ", " 512 ", " 1024 ", " 2048 ", "
4096 .
.RS
.PP
When specified as a single dash, \*(lq\fB-\fP\*(rq, the default packet size
(128) will be used.
.RE
.TP
.RB < win_siz >
Specifies the window size, in NSDUs, use with the X.25 destination.  Normally
for LAN operation, this can be 1 through 127.  For LAPB, this can be 1 through
7 for modulo 8 operation, 1 though 127 for modulo 128 operation, 1 through
32767 for modulo 32768 operation, and 1 through 2147483647 for modulo
2147483648 operation.
.RS
.PP
When specified as a single dash, \*(lq\fB-\fP\*(rq, the default window size
(2) will be used.
.RE
.TP
.RB < num_vcs >
Specifies the number of virtual circuits maximum that are permitted toward the
host.  This value is currently fixed at one (1).
.RS
.PP
When specified as a single dash, \*(lq\fB-\fP\*(rq, the default maximum number
of virtual circuits (1) will be used.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Sample output from the \fB-G\fP command option is as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
IP Address      Pktsz   Window  VCs      X25 Address
14.1.7.3        1024    7       1        C.02CF1F7009427E
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Sample output from the \fB-M\fP command option is as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
IP Address      Pktsz   Window  VCs      X25 Address
14.0.7.1        256     7       1        A.23423130014265
14.1.7.1        1024    7       1        C.02CF1F70065370
14.0.7.3        256     7       1        A.23423130014261
14.1.7.3        1024    7       1        C.02CF1F7009427E
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
A sample configuration file for use with the \fB-P\fP option, corresponding to
the \fB-M\fP option output given above, is as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#----------------------------------------------------------
#IP Address     X25 Address             Pktsz   Window  VCs
#----------------------------------------------------------
14.0.7.1        A.23423130014265        256     7       1
14.1.7.1        C.02CF1F70065370        1024    7       1
14.0.7.3        A.23423130014261        256     7       1
14.1.7.3        C.02CF1F7009427E        1024    7       1
#----------------------------------------------------------
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the optoin or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/ixe ", " /dev/streams/ixe
The default IXE device.  See
.BR ixe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/ixemapconf
The default configuration file for the IXE device.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ixe (4),
.BR ixetune (8),
.BR ipx25 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ixemap
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ixemap
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixlink
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B ixemap
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
Other implementations document 127 as the maximum window size.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits window sizes up to 32767.
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR ixe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixlink
.]
.IR "HP-UX"
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ixemap
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
