'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lltune.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-01 12:31:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:31:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lltune.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-01 12:31:06  brian
.\" - updated man pages, drafts, specs, header files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LLTUNE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lltune
\- tune LAPB and LLC2 parameters
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBlltune\fP\ 'u
\fBlltune\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP}\ \fIsubnet\fP
{\fB-p\fP|\fB--protocol\fP}\ \fIprotocol\fP
[{\fB-G\fP|\fB--get\fP}]
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP}\ \fIdevice\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBlltune\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP}\ \fIsubnet\fP
{\fB-p\fP|\fB--protocol\fP}\ \fIprotocol\fP
{\fB-P\fP|\fB--put\fP}
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP}\ \fIdevice\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.HP
\fBlltune\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBlltune\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBlltune\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B lltune
is a configuration command intended on being executed from system
configuration scripts, and, in particular, the
.BR x25netd (8)
configuration daemon.
Its purpose is to alter or interrogate the tunable parameters of an LLC2 or
LAPB data link connected to an identified subnetwork.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B lltune
command accepts the following options:
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options are mutually exclusive (except for \fB-h\fP,
\fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP which never cause an error when specified with another
command option).  If no command option is given, \fB-G\fP is assumed.
.TP
\fB-G\fP, \fB--get\fP
Retrieve configuration information for the specified \fIprotocol\fP and
\fIsubnet\fP, from the default or specified \fIdevice\fP, and write the output
to \fIstdout\fP (or \fIfilename\fP, when given).  This option can be used to
create a properly formatted configuration file from an existing system
configuration.
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--put\fP
Load configuration information for the specified \fIprotocol\fP and
\fIsubnet\fP, to the default or specified \fIdevice\fP, getting the
confirmation input from \fIstdin\fP (or \fIfilename\fP, when given).  This
option can be used to tune current system configuration.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, usage information is printed to \fIstdout\fP,
option processing stops, and the program exists successfully without taking
any further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, version information is printed to
\fIstdout\fP, option processing stops, and the program exists successfully
without taking any further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, copying permissions is printed to
\fIstdout\fP, option processing stops, and the program exists successfully
without taking any further action.
.\"
.SS Non-Command Options
.PP
The following non-command options can be combined together and with any
command option.  Non-command options that are not necessary for the specified
command option do not generate an error by mere combination.
.TP
\fB-e\fP, \fB--extended\fP
Normally \fBlltune\fP processes a fixed number of lines from \fIstdin\fP (or
\fIfilename\fP) when specified, and outputs a fixed number of lines to
\fIstdout\fP (or \fIfilename\fP) when specified.  This fixed number of lines are
strictly compatible with other implementations of \fBlltune\fP.
.RS
.PP
When the \fB-e\fP option is specified, additional lines are accepted on input
and are generated on output.  For the format of the fixed lines and the
additional lines, see
.BR llc2template (5)
and
.BR lapbtemplate (5).
.RE
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--subnet\fP \fIsubnet\fP
Specifies the subnetwork identifier, \fIsubnet\fP, to which the tuning
operation applies.  \fIsubnet\fP is normally an alphabetical character starting
at \*(lq\fBA\fP\*(rq for the first subnetwork, \*(lq\fBB\fP\*(rq for the
second subnetwork, and so on.
This option must always be given when the \fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP options are
present or assumed.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--protocol\fP \fIprotocol\fP
Specifies the \fIprotocol\fP associated with the subnetwork identifier.  The
\fIprotocol\fP may be one of the following tokens: \fBlapb\fP or \fBllc2\fP.
This option must always be given when the \fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP options are
present or assumed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevice\fP
Specifies the device to open when tuning.  When unspecified, for \fBlapb\fP
the default device is \fB/dev/lapb0\fP or \fB/dev/lapb\fP; for \fBllc2\fP the
default device is \fB/dev/llc20\fP or \fB/dev/llc2\fP.  See also
\*(lq\fIDEVICES\fP\*(rq, below.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--dryrun\fP
Execute the command (\fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP) as a dry run.  When this option is
specified with the \fB-P\fP option, the input is read and checked for
validity, but the configuration is not written to the device  When specified
with the \fB-G\fP option, information is read from the device, but
configuration information is not output.  The exit status and diagnostic
output of the command still reflects the success or failure of the command.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppresses normal output.  This is the same as
.BR "--verbose=0" .
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the debug verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default debug
\fIlevel\fP is zero (0).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no debugging output.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the output verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default output
\fIlevel\fP is one (1).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no normal output.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The following non-option arguments may be provided on the command line:
.TP
.I filename
Specifies the \fIfilename\fP from which to read (\fB-P\fP option) or write
(\fB-G\fP option) configuration information.
.RS
.PP
This argument is optional.  When the \fIfilename\fP is not given and the
\fB-P\fP option is specified, the values are read from \fIstdin\fP;
for the \fB-G\fP option, values are written to \fIstdout\fP.
.PP
If the \fIfilename\fP is an absolute path (i.e. begins with
\*(lq\fB/\fP\*(rq), then \fIfilename\fP is assumed to be the exact path
specified.  Otherwise, the file required is assumed to be
\fB@configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/\fP\fIfilename\fP.
See
.BR lapbtemplate (5)
and
.BR llc2template (5)
for the format of the file.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
For the input file format, see
.BR lapbtemplate (5)
and
.BR llc2template (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
On input, this implementation will handle fields that are separated by any
whitespace (any number of blanks, horizontal tabs, new lines, carriage returns,
vertical tabs, form feeds).
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/lapb ", " /dev/lapb
The Style 2 DLPI device for LAPB,
.BR lapb (4).
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/llc2 ", " /dev/llc2
The Style 2 DLPI device for LLC2,
.BR llc2 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.BI @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/ filename
The default directory location for configuration files used by this command.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lapbtemplate (5),
.BR llc2template (5),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B lltune
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B lltune
command is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
A version of this command is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with systems that require it.  Neither this command nor the
.BR x25netd (8)
are recommended for configuration of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
subsystems.  Use the SNMP agent instead.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR lltune
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents printing the output to a file when a
.I filename
is specified with the
.B -G
command option.  This is an enhancement of this implementation.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " and " -C
options.  They will not be used by portable command scripts. 
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards (GNITS);
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.B lltune
attempts to be source (and script) compatible with historical implementations
based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
however, binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatability
acheived is likely to be removed in a subsequent release.
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR lapb (4),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR lapbtemplate (5),
.BR llc2template (5),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B lltune
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
