'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ldlconfig.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/03/30 13:39:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxns.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH LDLCONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ldlconfig
\-
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 8
\fBldlconfig\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.HP 8
\fBldlconfig\fR {\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR}
.HP 8
\fBldlconfig\fR {\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR}
.HP 8
\fBldlconfig\fR {\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR}
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--attach\fR=\fINAME\fR
The \fINAME\fR of the network driver interface to which to attach.  For
example, \fB--attach\fR=\fIeth0\fR attaches to the \fBeth0\fR network driver.
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--bind\fR=\fISAP\fR
The Service Accpe Point identifier (\fISAP\fR) to bind.
The interpretation of the \fISAP\fR depends upon the mode (see \fB-p\fR) and
framing (see \fB-F\fR) being used.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--filedes\fR=\fIFILEDES\fR
Instead of opening \fB/dev/ldl\fR, use the given integer file descriptor
number (\fIFILEDES\fR).  This allows an external program to open
\fB/dev/ldl\fR, use \fBldlconfig\fR to configure the STREAM, and then continue
to use the open file descriptor for further operations.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--flag\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
\fIFLAG\fR to set with ioctl.  Mnemonic values for \fIFLAG\fR are:
.RS
.TP
.B PEDANTIC_STANDARD
.TP
.B RAW
.RE
.TP
\fB-F\fR, \fB--framing\fR=\fIFRAMING\fR
The type of \fIFRAMING\fR to use in interactions with the network driver.
Mnemonic values for framing are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B EII
.TP
.B 802.2
.TP
.B SNAP
.TP
.B 802.3
.TP
.B RAWLLC
.RE
.TP
\fB-I\fR, \fB--info\fR
Display the information returned in a
.B DL_INFO_ACK
 to
.BR stdout .
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--promisc\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Set promiscuous \fIMODE\fR.  Mnemonic values for mode are:
.RS
.TP
.B PHYS
.TP
.B SAP
.TP
.B PROMISC_MULTI
.RE
This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increase verbosity of output or set to \fILEVEL\fR.  The default verbosity is
.BR 1 .
This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress normal output (equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 ).
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
Print a usage message on
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Print the version on
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
Print the copying permissions on
.B stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B ldlconfig
opens the clone device
.BR /dev/ldl ,
or accepts a file descriptor to a file already opened to that device.  It
performs a
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
based upon the
.B -a
.I NAME
option.  This attaches the file to a Linux network device.
.PP
It then sets operational options based upon the
.B -f
and
.B -p
options, if any were specified on the command line.
If the
.B -b
option is specified, it also performs a
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
on the stream.
.PP
The resulting stream connects to the
.BR ldl (4)
driver which acts as a DLPI Provider
.[
dlpi
.]
and translates between the DLPI STREAMS protocol from above to the Linux
network driver interface below.  The effect is to present a
.BR dlpi (7)
interface from a Linux network driver.
.PP
The type of network driver (Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI, HDLC) is compared to
with the requested framing type (see
.B -F
option) and
.B RAW
flag (see
.B -f
option).  If the given driver does not support the requested framing type then
the
.B ldlconfig
command will fail.  All drivers support the
.B RAW
frame interface.
.PP
Depending upon the driver type and framing type, the
.BR ldl (4)
driver will set up to decode incoming frames according to the framing type.
This has an effet on where the driver looks in the incoming frame to find the
SAP to match agains the requested SAP in the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
to
.BR ldl (4)
(see the
.B -b
option).  The framing type of
.B RAWLLC
generally means that the entire frame is passed upstream.  This allows the
upstream client driver to interpret the LLC information within the frame.
.PP
Frame types other than
.B RAWLLC
generally mean that the LLC header will be stripped from received frames
passing just the payload portion to the upstream client.  The received frame
is passed upstream in a
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message and the address carried by this frame will be set to the source MAC
address from the frame header.
.PP
In the transmit direction, a frame type of
.B RAWLLC
means that the formatting of the frame to be sent to the medium is under the
control of the upstream client.
.PP
For other types of framing, the
.BR ldl (4)
driver will build the LLC header according to the framing type.  The address
in the
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
is used to develop the destination MAC address.
.PP
For any given frame type and driver type, it is often necessary to consult the
driver source code in order to understand the fine details of the frame
processing involved.

.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors can result from inadequate permissions, failure of a command on the
underlying
.BR ldl (4)
driver, other failure of the
.BR ldlconfig
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/ldl
the 
.BR ldl (4)
device
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/ldlconfig
contains the
.B ldlconfig
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ldl (4),
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ldlconfig
has no known bugs.  Report bugs to <bugs@openss7.org>.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
