'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ldltest.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/08/15 19:54:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/08/15 19:54:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxns.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH LDLTEST 8 "$Date: 2004/08/15 19:54:14 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ldltest
\-
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
.HP 8
\fBldltest\fr [\fIoptions\fR] \fIINTERFACE\fR \fILOCALIP\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldltest
is used to test the
.BR ldl (4)
.I STREAMS
driver by using one of the existing standard Linux network drivers to send a
"ping" to another host on the network.  The command line parameters specify
the local-IP and remote-IP addresses and the name of the Driver to use when
sending the ping.
.PP
.B ldltest
is also used to obtain statistics from the
.BR ldl (4)
STREAMS driver and to set debugging masks.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I INTERFACE
local interface
.TP
.I LOCALIP
local ip address
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--arp\fR
Respond to arp queries.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--ping\fR
Respond to ping packets.
Also enables LLC TEST/XID echo mode.
.TP
\fB-S\fR, \fB--sap\fR=\fIDSAP\fB:\fISSAP\fR
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--remoteip\fR=\fIREMOTE-IP\fR
The remote IP address to which the ping is to be directed.
.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--remotemac\fR=\fIREMOTE-MAC\fR
The remote MAC address for sending LLC TEST/XID frames.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--count\fR=\fIPACKET-COUNT\fR
The number of ping packets to send.  The default is
.BR 1 .
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--framing\fR=\fIFRAMING\fR
Set framing style to \fBEII\fR (default), \fBRAW\fR or \fBSNAP\fR.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR=\fIMASK\fR
Set LDL debug mask.
.I MASK
is a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B 0x01
debug raw frame from net driver
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0x02
dump
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)
upstream
.TP
.B 0x04
dump
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
downstream
.TP
.B 0x08
dump Tx to net driver
.TP
.B 0x10
dump full buffer, not just header
.TP
.B 0x20
debug infor for
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
.TP
.B 0x40
debuginfor for
.B DL_BIND_REQ (7)
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB-H\fR
List debug flags (obsolete, see above, use \fB-h\fR)
.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--global\fR
Print out global statistics obtained from the
.BR ldl (4)
driver.
.TP
\fB-T\fR, \fB--test\fR
Send the LLC TEST command.
.TP
\fB-X\fR, \fB--xid\fR
Send the LLC XID command.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increase the verbosity of the output or set to
.IR LEVEL .
The default verbosity level is
.BR 1 .
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress normal output (equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 ).
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
Print usage message to
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Print version information to
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
Print copying permissions to
.B stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
In test mode,
.B ldltest
constructs a ping packet from the parameters given and sends it to the remote
host.  It awaits the response and prints out the round trip time when it
receives the response.  If the -c option is used it sends the ping repeatedly
and prints out the round-trip time every 1,000 packets.
.PP
With the \fB-s\fR, \fB--ping\fR option,
.B ldltest
listens for received frames from the indicated interface driver.  If the
framing is specified as
.B RAW
then it will receive LLC frames from the driver.  Other types of framing
result in non-LLC Ethernet types of frames such as IP packets and ARP
messages.  Thus, the setting of the
.BR -f ", " --framing
option conditions the type of messages that can be received from the
interface.  When an ICMP ping is received, it is responded to.  When an LLC
TEST or XID command is received it is responded to with the corresponding
response frame.
.PP
With the
.BR -g ", " --global
option,
.B ldltest
obtains statistics maintained by the
.BR ldl (4)
driver and prints them out.  This is useful for troubleshooting protocol stack
configuration since you can see whether packets entering
.BR ldl (4)
from either above or below was forwarded to the neighboring module.
.PP
By setting debug bits via the
.BR -d ", " --debug
option, you can cause the
.BR ldl (4)
driver to print the contents of packets flowing into it and out of it.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors can result from inadequate permissions, failure of a command on the
underlying
.BR ldl (4)
driver, other failure of the
.BR ldltest
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

.nf
\fC\s-1\
ldltest -r 192.168.1.1 eth0 192.168.1.117
\s+1\fP
.fi

.PP
Sends a ping to 192.168.1.1.  The local host address is 192.168.1.117
(obtainable from the ifconfig command).

.nf
\fC\s-1\
ldltest -S 0x00:0x0C -T -R 00:00:C0:D7:54:F8 eth0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Sends an LLC TEST command to the remote system with Ethernet address
00:00:C0:D7:54:F8, DSAP 0x00 and SSAP 0x0C.  Await the response.

.nf
\fC\s-1\
ldltest -s -f RAW eth0 192.168.1.47
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Listens for RAW LLC frames addressed to the local machine whose IP address is
192.168.1.47.  Send responses to TEST and XID commands.

.nf
\fC\s-1\
ldltest -d 0x0f
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Sets the debug mask in the
.BR ldl (4)
driver.

.nf
\fC\s-1\
ldltest -H
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Prints the values assigned to the debug mask bits as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
0x00000001 dump raw frame from net driver
0x00000002 dump UNITDATA_IND upstream
0x00000004 dump UNITDATA_REQ downstream
0x00000008 dump Tx to net driver
0x00000010 dump full buffer, not just header
0x00000020 debug info for @code{DL_ATTACH}
0x00000040 debug info for @code{DL_BIND}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/ldl
the
.BR ldl (4)
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/ldltest
contains the
.B ldltest
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
