@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2006/10/05 12:14:45 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:14:45 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-4::			Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-3::			Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-2::			Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-1::			Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package contains a wide array of SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN
and VoIP drivers and components for Linux Fast-STREAMS.  This is the public
release package which has most of the components removed.  Subscribers and
sponsors of the OpenSS7 Project have access to the full array of components.

This is the fifth release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} @value{PACKAGE} package
that contains SS7 (Signalling System No. 7), SIGTRAN (SIGnalling TRANsport),
ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) and VoIP (Void over Internet
Protocol) signalling stack components for Linux Fast-STREAMS.  The package
contains the necessary header files, manual pages and other documentation for
SS7/SIGTRAN/ISDN/VoIP components in a separate autoconf tarball.

This release is primarily to support recent compilers, kernels and
distributions.

@itemize
@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versioning of all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions:
support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9
SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static libraries,
manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-4

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

@itemize
@item
Changes necessary for __LP64__ compatible builds.  Changes to support 32-bit
ioctl compatibility for __LP64__ architectures.  Binary compatibility should
not have been disrupted.  At the same time as the ioctl32 changes, TRANSPARENT
ioctl support for most of the IO controls for the ldl(4) driver has been
added.

@item
Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.

@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@item
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.

@item
Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630
Hyper-Threaded SMP on x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons
even with Hyper-Threading enabled.

@item
Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibility over 64-bit on x86_64.
Should apply well to other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

This is a public alpha release of the package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-3

This is primarily a bug fixes release and corrections resulting from testing.
This is a major bug fix release.  The previous release was largely untested.
This release has been verified (conformance test suite passes) for operation
with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@file{streams-0.7a.4}).

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All @cite{RPM}
release numbers will be @samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all @cite{Debian}
release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches and release
the package, please bump up the release number and apply a suitable release
suffix for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release number @samp{_1}
reserved for your use, so you can still bundle the source in the @file{.dsc}
file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and
popular distributions based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution
support.  The package also supports both @file{LiS-2.18.1} as well as
@file{streams-0.7a} on both kernels.

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-2

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9a-1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

Not publicly released.

