% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: strss7.texi,v 0.9.2.15 2006/08/27 12:26:38 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/27 12:26:38 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename strss7.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 SS7: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).	An Open SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN, VoIP Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
documentation, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@c I don't really like this, go to default.
@ignore
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} @| @emph{Released under the GFDL} @| @thispage
@end iftex
@end ignore

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this document

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* GPL::				GNU General Public License
* LGPL::			GNU Lesser General Public License
* FDL::				GNU Free Documentation License

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this document
* Revisions::			Revisions of this document
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Objective

Reference

* Applications::		OpenSS7 Applications
* SS7 Stack::			Signalling System No. 7 Stack
* ISDN Stack::			Integrated Services Digital Network Stack
* SIGTRAN Stack::		Signalling Transport Stack
* VoIP Stack::			Voice over IP Stack
* MG Stack::			Media Gateway Stack
* Transport Stack::		Data Transport Stack
* Device Drivers::		Hardware Device Drivers

Conformance

* STREAMS Compatibility::	Compatibility with other STREAMS packages
* Porting::			Porting to this STREAMS package

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

* GPL::				GNU General Public License
* LGPL::			GNU Lesser General Public License
* FDL::				GNU Free Documentation License

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this document
* Revisions::			Revisions of this document
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex document notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU General Public License} (@pxref{GPL}).
Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and some of the
documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.} publications
and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for more
information.

This document, is released under the @cite{GNU Free Documentation License} (@pxref{FDL}) with all
sections invariant.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex document abstract

This document provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex document objective

The objective of this document is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex document intent

The intent of this document is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex document audience

This document is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this document is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: strss7.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/08/27 12:26:38  brian
- finalizing auto release files

Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/08/26 09:16:50  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/08/23 11:00:28  brian
- added preface, corrections and updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/08/22 12:44:09  brian
- documentation updates

Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/03/22 10:02:00  brian
- added makefile target index

Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/03/03 12:06:09  brian
- 32/64-bit compatibility

Revision 0.9.2.9  2005/07/08 13:15:56  brian
- updates to documentation

Revision 0.9.2.8  2005/06/24 13:38:59  brian
- added troubleshooting section to manuals

Revision 0.9.2.7  2005/05/14 08:33:46  brian
- copyright header correction

Revision 0.9.2.6  2005/04/12 09:29:06  brian
- corrections

Revision 0.9.2.5  2005/04/11 20:48:40  brian
- documentation updates and corrections

Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/03/15 00:56:50  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/03/15 00:51:47  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/02/17 20:00:11  brian
- Fixes for texi documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/01/26 08:24:18  brian
- Changed name of texinfo file.

Revision 0.9  2005/01/26 08:24:18  brian
file strss7.texi was initially added on branch OpenSS7-0_9_2.

@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex document disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@unnumberedsec Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @ref{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this document.

@node Maintainer
@unnumberedsec Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xref{Problem
Reports}, in the manual.

@node Web Resources
@unnumberedsec Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU General Public License} (@pxref{GPL}).
Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and some of the
documentation (derived from X/Open publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices
contained in the documentation for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{GNU Free Documentation License} (@pxref{FDL}) with all
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} packages is an SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN, VoIP package for Linux that can be used
with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual, STREAMS,
Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual},} or @cite{Linux STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux
STREAMS (LiS), About This Manual, LiS, Linux STREAMS (LiS) Reference Manual}.}.  It includes
development tools, header files and manual pages for

@itemize
@item @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)},
@item @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@item @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@item @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@item @cite{Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)},
@item @cite{Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)},
@item @cite{Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)},
@item @cite{Call Control Interface (CCI)},
@item @cite{Transaction Interface (TRI)},
@item @cite{Transaction Component Interface (TCI)}, and,
@item @cite{Mobile Application Part Interface (MAPI)}.
@end itemize

@noindent
Also, it provides STREAMS drivers and modules for SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN and VoIP including:

@itemize
@item 
@end itemize

@noindent
The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is essential to the development and support of
SS7 and ISDN newtorking and call control
modules and drivers and provides a fundamental set of
SS7
header files and manual pages for such development.

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does @strong{not} provide the
STREAMS components.
See the manuals referenced above.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Applications::		OpenSS7 Applications
* SS7 Stack::			Signalling System No. 7 Stack
* ISDN Stack::			Integrated Services Digital Network Stack
* SIGTRAN Stack::		Signalling Transport Stack
* VoIP Stack::			Voice over IP Stack
* MG Stack::			Media Gateway Stack
* Transport Stack::		Data Transport Stack
* Device Drivers::		Hardware Device Drivers
@end menu


@ignore
@menu
 ----- detailed node listing -----

Applications

SS7 Stack

* SDL::				Signalling Data Link
* SDT::				Signalling Data Terminal
* SL::				Signalling Link
* MTP::				Message Transfer Part
* SCCP::			Signalling Connection Control Part
* TCAP::			Transaction Capabilities Application Part
* BSSAP::			Base Station System Application Part

ISDN Stack

* HDLC::			High-Level Data Link Control
* ISDN LAPB::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (Balanced)
* X.25 LAPB::			X.25 Link Access Procedure (Balanced)
* ISDN LAPD::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (D-Channel)
* ISDN LAPF::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (Frame Relay)
* ISDN Q.931::			ISDN Level 3 Q.931
* ISDN Frame Relay::		ISDN Frame Relay
* X.213::			ISO Network Protocol X.213
* V5.2::			ESTI V5.2
* GR-303::			Telcordia GR-303-CORE
* DPNSS::			PNOC DPNSS Layer 2
* IDLC::			Integrated Digital Loop Carrier
* DPNSS/DASS::			PNOC DPNSS/DASS Layer 3

SIGTRAN Stack

* IPSS7::			SS7 over IP
* M2PA::			MTP Level 2 Peer-to-Perr Adatpataion Layer
* M2UA::			MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer
* M3UA::			MTP Level 3 user Adaptation Layer
* ISUA::			ISUP User Adaptation Layer
* BUA::				BICC User Adaptation Layer
* SUA::				SCCP User Adaptation Layer
* TUA::				TCAP User Adaptation Layer
* IUA::				ISDN Q.921 User Adpatation Layer
* GR303UA::			GR-303 User Adpatation Layer
* V5UA::			V5.2 User Adaptation Layer
* DUA::				DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer
* TALI::			Tekelec's Adaptation Layer Interface

VoIP Stack

* H225::			H.225.0
* BICC::			Bearer Indexed Call Control
* SIPT::			Session Initiation Protocol - Transport

MG Stack

* MGCP::			Media Gateway Control Protocol
* H.248::			MEGACO/H.248
* MX::				Multiplex
* CH::				Channel

Transport Stack

* IP::				Internet Protocol
* UDP::				User Datagram Protocol
* TCP::				Transmission Control Protocol
* SCTP::			Stream Control Transmission Protocol
* RTP/RTCP::			Real-Time (Control) Protocol
* SSCOP::			Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol

Device Drivers

* X400P-SS7::			E400P/T400P Driver
* ACB56::			SeaLevel ACB56 Driver
* CPC384::			PTI CPC-384 Drivers
* CPC388::			PTI CPC-388 Drivers

@end menu
@end ignore

@node Applications
@section Applications
@cpindex applications

@menu
@end menu

@page
@node SS7 Stack
@section SS7 Protocol Stack
@cpindex ss7 protocol stack

@menu
* SDL::				Signalling Data Link
* SDT::				Signalling Data Terminal
* SL::				Signalling Link
* MTP::				Message Transfer Part
* SCCP::			Signalling Connection Control Part
* TCAP::			Transaction Capabilities Application Part
* BSSAP::			Base Station System Application Part
@end menu

@page
@node SDL
@subsection Signalling Data Link (SDL)

@page
@node SDT
@subsection Signalling Data Terminal (SDT)

@page
@node SL
@subsection Signalling Link (SL)

@page
@node MTP
@subsection Message Transfer Part (MTP)

@page
@node SCCP
@subsection Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)

@page
@node TCAP
@subsection Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)

@page
@node BSSAP
@subsection Base Station System Application Part (BSSAP)

@page
@node ISDN Stack
@section ISDN Protocol Stack
@cpindex ISDN protocol stack

@menu
* HDLC::			High-Level Data Link Control
* ISDN LAPB::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (Balanced)
* X.25 LAPB::			X.25 Link Access Procedure (Balanced)
* ISDN LAPD::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (D-Channel)
* ISDN LAPF::			ISDN Link Access Procedure (Frame Relay)
* ISDN Q.931::			ISDN Level 3 Q.931
* ISDN Frame Relay::		ISDN Frame Relay
* X.213::			ISO Network Protocol X.213
* V5.2::			ESTI V5.2
* GR-303::			Telcordia GR-303-CORE
* DPNSS::			PNOC DPNSS Layer 2
* IDLC::			Integrated Digital Loop Carrier
* DPNSS/DASS::			PNOC DPNSS/DASS Layer 3
@end menu

@page
@node HDLC
@subsection  High-Level Data Link Communication

@page
@node ISDN LAPB
@subsection ISDN Link Access Procedure (Balanced)

@page
@node X.25 LAPB
@subsection X.25 Link Access Procedure (Balanced)

@page
@node ISDN LAPD
@subsection ISDN Link Access Procedure (D-Channel)

@page
@node ISDN LAPF
@subsection ISDN Link Access Procedure (Frame Relay)

@page
@node ISDN Q.931
@subsection ISDN Level 3 Q.931

@page
@node ISDN Frame Relay
@subsection ISDN Frame Relay

@page
@node X.213
@subsection ISO/OSI NP X.213

@page
@node V5.2
@subsection ETSI V5.2

@page
@node GR-303
@subsection Telcordia GR-303-CORE

@page
@node DPNSS
@subsection PNOC DPNSS (Link)

@page
@node IDLC
@subsection IDLC

@page
@node DPNSS/DASS
@subsection PNOC DPNSS/DASS (Level 3)

@page
@node SIGTRAN Stack
@section SIGTRAN Protocol Stack
@cpindex SIGTRAN protocol stack

@menu
* IPSS7::			SS7 over IP
* M2PA::			MTP Level 2 Peer-to-Perr Adatpataion Layer
* M2UA::			MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer
* M3UA::			MTP Level 3 user Adaptation Layer
* ISUA::			ISUP User Adaptation Layer
* BUA::				BICC User Adaptation Layer
* SUA::				SCCP User Adaptation Layer
* TUA::				TCAP User Adaptation Layer
* IUA::				ISDN Q.921 User Adpatation Layer
* GR303UA::			GR-303 User Adpatation Layer
* V5UA::			V5.2 User Adaptation Layer
* DUA::				DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer
* TALI::			Tekelec's Adaptation Layer Interface
@end menu

@page
@node IPSS7
@subsection SS7 over IP

@page
@node M2PA
@subsection MTP Level 2 Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer

@page
@node M2UA
@subsection MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node M3UA
@subsection MTP Level 3 User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node ISUA
@subsection ISUP User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node BUA
@subsection BICC User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node SUA
@subsection SCCP User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node TUA
@subsection TCAP User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node IUA
@subsection ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node GR303UA
@subsection GR-303 User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node V5UA
@subsection V5.2 User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node DUA
@subsection DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer

@page
@node TALI
@subsection Tekelec Adaptation Layer Interface

@page
@node VoIP Stack
@section VoIP Protocol Stack
@cpindex VoIP protocol stack

@menu
* H225::			H.225.0
* BICC::			Bearer Indexed Call Control
* SIPT::			Session Initiation Protocol - Transport
@end menu

@page
@node H225
@subsection H.225

@page
@node BICC
@subsection Bearer Indexed Call Control (BICC)

@page
@node SIPT
@subsection Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Transport (SIP-T)

@page
@node MG Stack
@section Media Gateway Protocol Stack
@cpindex media gateway protocol stack

@menu
* MGCP::			Media Gateway Control Protocol
* H.248::			MEGACO/H.248
* MX::				Multiplex
* CH::				Channel
@end menu

@page
@node MGCP
@subsection Media Gateway Control Protocol

@page
@node H.248
@subsection MEGACO/H.248

@page
@node MX
@subsection Multiplex (MX)

@page
@node CH
@subsection Channel (CH)

@page
@node Transport Stack
@section Transport Protocol Stack
@cpindex transport

@menu
* IP::				Internet Protocol
* UDP::				User Datagram Protocol
* TCP::				Transmission Control Protocol
* SCTP::			Stream Control Transmission Protocol
* RTP/RTCP::			Real-Time (Control) Protocol
* SSCOP::			Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
@end menu

@page
@node IP
@subsection Internet Protocol

@page
@node UDP
@subsection User Datagram Protocol

@page
@node TCP
@subsection Transmission Control Protocol

@page
@node SCTP
@subsection Signalling Connection Transport Protocol

@page
@node RTP/RTCP
@subsection Real-time Transport (Control) Protocol

@page
@node SSCOP
@subsection Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol

@page
@node Device Drivers
@section Device Drivers
@cpindex device drivers
@cpindex device
@cpindex drivers

@menu
* X400P-SS7::			E400P/T400P Driver
* ACB56::			SeaLevel ACB56 Driver
* CPC384::			PTI CPC-384 Drivers
* CPC388::			PTI CPC-388 Drivers
@end menu

@page
@node X400P-SS7
@subsection Digium Drivers
@cindex x400p t400p t100p e400p e100p te405p te410p

@page
@node ACB56
@subsection SeaLevel ACB56 Drivers

@page
@node CPC384
@subsection PTI CPC 384 Driver

@page
@node CPC388
@subsection PTI CPC 388 Driver

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

@menu
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GPL
@appendix GPL
@cindex license GPL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/gpl.texi

@node LGPL
@appendix LGPL
@cindex license LGPL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/lesser.texi

@node FDL
@appendix FDL
@cindex license FDL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
