@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 07:10:35 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:35 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================


@subsubheading Current Plan

The current plan includes the public production release of SCCP, ISUP and TCAP components.  MTP3 has
not yet been publicly released and is not currently scheduled. (Implementing the AS-side of M3UA is
taking precedence.)  The first public production releases of SCCP, ISUP and TCAP are planned for the
end of July 2007.  This will be followed by lab and limitied field trial testing with a lead
customer in August and production deployment in the lead customer's network in 1Q2008.  Expect that
over the next 8 months releases of this package will include major new development and validation
testing as well as including SCCP, ISUP and TCAP components that have nor heretofore been publicly
released.

@subsubheading Things to Do

There is a great long list of these, but here is a crack
at the first ones:

@itemize @minus
@item
Compile entire (private) package against Linux Fast-STREAMS.

@item
Convert test programs into conformance test suites under GNU autotest.  This should be straight
forward matter.

@item
Start retesting SIGTRAN components against SCTP and Linux Fast-STREAMS starting with M2PA.

@item
Start retesting SS7 Device Drivers under Linux Fast-STREAMS starting with X400P.

@item
Start retesting SS7 Stack components (MTP2, MTP3, SCCP, ISUP, TCAP) under Linux Fast-STREAMS.

@item
Package a public release.  It has been way too long since a public release of this package.
The package has almost a million lines of code in it, most of which the public has never seen!

@item
Complete the SL-MUX driver and utility programs.

@item
Complete the libslpcap library (@manpage{pcap(3)}) for live capture of SS7 link SDUs using
@manpage{ethereal(1)} or @manpage{wireshark(1)}.

@end itemize

