'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: npi_sctp.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-28 23:13:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:13:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: npi_sctp.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-28 23:13:21  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/16 00:14:36  brian
.\" - updates for release and test case passes on UP
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:46:17  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NPI_SCTP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "NPI Corrigendum for SCTP"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B npi_sctp
\- Network Provider Interace (NPI) \(em Corrigendum for SCTP Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_sctp.h>
.HP
.BI int " sctp_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/sctp_t\(rq ", " oflags ");
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
provides a Stream supporting the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
.[
rfc2960
.]
.[
rfc3309
.]
.[
rfc4460
.]
driver,
.BR sctp (4).
.\"
.SS "INTERFACE"
.PP
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
interface provides the
.BR sctp (4)
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the
.BR npi (7).
This interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules
requiring the common
.BR npi (7)
service interface.  In particular, the
.BR npi (7)
interface to
.BR sctp (4)
is often used by SIGTRAN and other telecommunications protocols such as
TI-SCCP internal to the kernel.  This is because the
.B NPI-SCTP
interface provides some richer control that is not available in the
.BR tpi_sctp (7)
interface or the
.BR xti_sctp (3)
library.
.\"
.SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The SCTP address format is structured as follows:
.PP
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct sockaddr_in {
    sa_family_t         sin_family;  /* Address family */
    unsigned short int  sin_port;    /* Port number */
    struct in_addr      sin_addr;    /* Internet address */
    /* padding */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B sockaddr_in
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'sin_family\(em'u
.I sin_family
The address family.  Always set to
.BR AF_INET " or " AF_UNSPEC .
.PD 0
.TP
.I sin_port
The port number of the transport endpoint in network byte order.
.TP
.I sin_addr
The IP address of the transport endpoint in network byte order.
.TP
.I (padding)
Padding to pad the size of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure to the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.PD
.PP
The structure is padded to the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.PP
SCTP adresses can also be formed as an array of
.B sockaddr_in
structure to represent multiple addresses for multi-homed hosts.
.\"
.\"
.SS OPTIONS
.PP
Quality of service parameters are formatted according to the format defined
for each network provider.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union N_qos_sctp {
    ulong n_qos_type;
    N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t n_qos_conn;
    N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t n_qos_data;
    N_qos_sel_info_sctp_t n_qos_info;
    N_qos_range_info_sctp_t n_qos_range;
} N_qos_sctp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.B NPI-SCTP
defines the following quality of service structures for SCTP:
.TP
.B N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP
Identifies a structure containing QOS parameters for connection selection for SCTP.
This structure is normally used in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ "(7), " N_CONN_IND "(7), " N_CONN_RES "(7) and " N_CONN_CON (7)
primitives.
It may also be used in the
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
This structure type identifies a
.B N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;
    ulong i_streams;
    ulong o_streams;
} N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIn_qos_type\fR\(em'u
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP .
.PD 0
.TP
.I i_streams
the maximum number of input streams accepted.
.TP
.I o_streams
the number of output streams requested.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP
Identifies a structure containing QOS parameters for data selection for SCTP.
This structure is normally used in the
.BR N_DATA_REQ "(7), " N_DATA_IND "(7), " N_EXDATA_REQ "(7) and " N_EXDATA_IND (7)
primitives.
It may also be used in the
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
This structure type identifies a
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure, formated as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;
    ulong ppi;
    ulong sid;
    ulong ssn;
    ulong tsn;
    ulong more;
} N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIn_qos_type\fR\(em'u
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP .
.PD 0
.TP
.I ppi
the SCTP protocol payload identifier.
.TP
.I sid
the SCTP stream sequence identifier.
.TP
.I ssn
the SCTP stream sequence number.
.TP
.I tsn
the SCTP transmit sequence number.
.TP
.I more
the SCTP segmentation flag (B and E).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B N_QOS_SEL_INFO_SCTP
Identifies a structure containing QOS parameters for information selection for
SCTP.  This structure is normally returned in the
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
It may also be used in the
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
This structure type identifies a
.B N_qos_sel_info_sctp_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;
    ulong i_streams;
    ulong o_streams;
    ulong ppi;
    ulong sid;
    ulong max_inits;
    ulong max_retrans;
    ulong ck_life;
    ulong ck_inc;
    ulong hmac;
    ulong throttle;
    ulong max_sack;
    ulong rto_ini;
    ulong rto_min;
    ulong rto_max;
    ulong rtx_path;
    ulong hb_itvl;
    ulong options;
} N_qos_sel_info_sctp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIn_qos_type\fR\(em'u
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_INFO_SCTP .
.PD 0
.TP
.I i_streams
current number of input streams.
.TP
.I o_streams
current number of output streams.
.TP
.I ppi
default payload protocol identifier.
.TP
.I sid
default stream identifier.
.TP
.I max_inits
maximum number of INIT retries.
.TP
.I max_retrans
maximum number of retransmissions per association.
.TP
.I ck_life
cookie lifetime.
.TP
.I ck_inc
cookie preservative increment.
.PD
.TP
.I hmac
HMAC algorithm used to sign cookies.  Curent values for this field are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSCTP_HMAC_SHA_1\fR\(em'u
.B SCTP_HMAC_NONE
no HMAC algorithm, fill signature with all 1's.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SCTP_HMAC_SHA_1
SHA-1 checksum signature.
.TP
.B SCTP_HMAC_MD5
MD5 checksum signature.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I throttle
INIT and COOKIE-ECHO throttling interval.
.PD 0
.TP
.I max_sack
maximum SACK delay.
.TP
.I rto_ini
initial retransmission time out.
.TP
.I rto_min
minimum retransmission time out.
.TP
.I rto_max
maximum retransmission time out.
.TP
.I rtx_path
maximum number of retransmissions per path (destination).
.TP
.I hb_itvl
hearbeat interval.
.PD
.TP
.I options
additional local (flag) options.
Currently supported flag options include:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSCTP_OPTION_DROPPING\fR\(em'u
.B SCTP_OPTION_DROPPING
the stream will drop packets.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SCTP_OPTION_BREAK
the stream will break first path (tx).
.TP
.B SCTP_OPTION_DBREAK
the stream will break first path (rx and tx).
.TP
.B SCTP_OPTION_RANDOM
the stream will drop packets at random.
.RE
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B N_QOS_SEL_RANGE_INFO_SCTP
Identifies a structure containing QOS parameters for information selection ranges for
SCTP.  This structure is normally returned in the
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
The structure type identifies a
.B N_qos_sel_range_info_sctp_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
	ulong n_qos_type;
} N_qos_range_info_sctp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIn_qos_type\fR\(em'u
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_RANGE_INFO_SCTP .
.PD 0
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS "EXPEDITED DATA"
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support an expedited data option end-to-end; however, expedited data
is handled locally and is always available.
In support of expedited data,
.B NPI-SCTP
uses the
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ "(7) and " N_EXDATA_IND (7)
primitives.
Expedited data sent with these primitives is always sent \(lqunordered\(rq by
SCTP.
.PP
SCTP expedites \(lqunordered\(rq data over \(lqordered\(rq data because
\(lqunordered\(rq data is not subject to ordering constraints.  Also, this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of SCTP will expedite unordered data from lower number stream
identification number over higher numbers.  Unordered data from stream
identifier zero (0) is given the highest priority.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
SCTP also gives priority to new \(lqunordered\(rq data over any
retransmissions of data.  This ensures that unordered data is expedited to the
wire.
.\"
.\"
.SS "RECEIPT CONFIRMATION"
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support receipt confirmation option negotiation end-to-end; however,
receipt confirmation can optionally be invoked locally and is always available
to the NS user.  Receipt confirmation makes use of the
.BR N_DATACK_REQ "(7) and "
.BR N_DATACK_IND (7)
primitive.
.PP
When an
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive is issued with the
.B N_RC_FLAG
set in the
.IR DATA_xfer_flags ,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
will perform receipt confirmation.  When the TSN containing the last segment
of the NSDU associated with the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
with the
.B N_RC_FLAG
flag set is cummulatively acknoweldged by the SCTP peer, the NS provider will
issue a
.BR N_DATACK_IND "(7)
primitive to the NS user to indicate that the data was successfully received
by the SCTP peer.  Note that this does not ensure that the data was received
by the remote NS user (as in the case of OSI protocols), but, however, that
the data was received by the remote NS provider.
.\".PP
.\"When a
.\".BR N_DATA_IND (7)
.\"primitive is issued by the
.\".B NPI-SCTP
.\"NS provider and the
.\".B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
.\"option flag is set for the association, the NS provider will set the
.\".B N_RC_FLAG
.\"in the indication primitive.  Once set, the NS provider will not cummulatively
.\"acknowledge the received TSN until the NS user acknowledges receipt of the
.\"primitive by issuing a
.\".BR N_DATACK_REQ (7)
.\"primitive to the NS user.
.PP
This receipt confirmation capability has the effect that NSDUs that have been
confirmed received by the remote SCTP NS provider will be confirmed to the
local NS user.
.\"It also has the effect of not permitting the local SCTP NS provider to
.\"acknowledge to the remote NS provider NSDUs that have not been confirmed
.\"received by the local NS user.
At one time, this was a necessary capability for M2PA, but this is no longer
the case.  Use this option with care.  It has not been thourougly tested and
has performance impacts on both the local NS provider and local NS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
provides a local management through the service interface as described in
.BR npi (7),
using the following primitives:
.\"
.SS N_INFO_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitivie is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.SS N_INFO_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitivie is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.\".TP \w'\fIQOS_range_offset\fr\(em'u
.\".I PRIM_type
.TP
.I NSDU_size
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider has an unlimited NSDU size and returns
.B T_INFINITE
in this field in accordace with the
.BR npi (7).
.TP
.I ENSDU_size
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider supports the concept of expedited data.  Expedited data is data that
is sent unordered.  This field should alwasy return the same value as the
.I NSDU_size
above.
.TP
.I CDATA_size
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider supports the concept of connection data.  This field will be the
maximum amount of connection data that will fit in a COOKIE-ECHO or COOKIE-ACK
message.
.TP
.I DDATA_size
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider does not support the concept of disconnection data and, therefore,
returns
.B T_INVALID
in this field.
.TP
.I ADDR_size
The maximum size of the
.B SCTP
address.  This field will aways return an integer multiple of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure size as described under
.RI \(lq "ADDRESS FORMAT" ,\(rq
above.
.\".TP
.\".I ADDR_length
.\".TP
.\".I ADDR_offset
.\".TP
.\".I QOS_length
.\".TP
.\".I QOS_offset
.\".TP
.\".I QOS_range_length
.\".TP
.\".I QOS_range_offset
.TP
.I OPTIONS_flags
The options flags may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDEFAULT_RC_SEL\fR\(em'u
.B REC_CONF_OPT
Receipt confirmation selection and support.  Receipt confirmation is supported
and, if in the connected state, was requested and negotiated.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not provide true negotiation of receipt confirmation support, however,
the SCTP protocol does support receipt confirmation.
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Expedited data selection and support.  Expedited data is supported and, if in
the connected state, was requested and negotiated.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
Indicates if default receipt confirmaiton is selected.  When this option is
set using the
.BR N_CONN_REQ "(7), "  N_CONN_RES "(7) or " N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive, it requests that messages sent using the
.BR write (2s)
system call (i.e, message not containing an
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block), request receipt confirmation by default.  When this flag is
clear, receipt confirmation will not be requested for
.BR write (2s)
operations.
.\".IP ""
.\"The
.\".B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
.\"flag serves an additional purpose for
.\".BR NPI-SCTP :
.\"as receipt confirmation cannot be selected by the remote peer, this flag
.\"determines whether the
.\".B N_RC_FLAG
.\"is set in
.\".BR N_DATA_IND (7)
.\"primitives issued to the NS user by the NS provider, and whether the NS
.\"provider will delay SCTP cummulative acknowledgement until such time as an
.\".BR N_DATACK_REQ (7)
.\"is issued by the NS user.
.IP ""
If
.B REC_CONF_OPT
is not also set (using the
.BR N_CONN_REQ "(7) or " N_CONN_RES (7)
primitives), then the
.B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
flag is ignored.
.RE
.TP
.I NIDU_size
This is the maximum size of the interface data unit, which is the maximum size
of data that can be transferred across the interface ina single
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR putmsg (2)
system call.  This size is always less than or equal to the
.I NISDU_size
above.
.TP
.I SERV_type
The service type is one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBN_SUBNET\fR\(em'u
.B N_CONS
Connection-oriented network service.
.B NPI-SCTP
supports connection-oriented network service.
This value is always returned by
.BR NPI-SCTP .
.TP
.B N_CLNS
Connectionless network service.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support connectionless service.
This value is never returned by
.BR NPI-SCTP .
.RE
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
The current state of the service interface as described in
.BR npi (7).
.TP
.I PROVIDER_type
The provider type is one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBN_SUBNET\fR\(em'u
.B N_SNICFP
The provider is a subnetwork independent convergence function provider.
This value is always returned by
.BR NPI-SCTP .
.TP
.B N_SUBNET
The provider is a subnetwork provider.
This value is never returned by
.BR NPI-SCTP .
.RE
.TP
.I NODU_size
Indicates the optimal NIDU size.
.B NPI-SCTP
always returns half of the association MTU as the optimal NIDU size.
.\".TP
.\".I PROTOID_length
.\".TP
.\".I PROTOID_offset
.TP
.I NPI_version
.B NPI-SCTP
always returns
.B N_VERSION_2
in this field.
.\"
.SS N_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7),
with the Quality of Service parameters described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above.
.\"
.SS N_BIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structures that contain the
.B NPI-SCTP
addresses to bind.  The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider supports wildcard addresses and the address
.BR INADDR_NAY .
This sfield can contain an integer number of addresses.
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Specifies the number of connection indications.  Specifying a non-zero number
of connection indications will place the Stream in listening mode.  Any
COOKIE-ECHO packet receives from a unique source address will generate a
connection indication.  Connection indications can be accepted or refused
(without data).  This number specifies the maximum number of outstanding
ocnnection indications (those that have neither been accepted nor refused)
that the provider will deliver.  Because this limit is reached does not mean
that the provider discards additional connection indications, but may queue
them internally until the number of outstanding connection indications drops
beneath the number specified.  See
.BR npi (7)
for more information.
.TP
.I BIND_flags
This field can contain the bitwize OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
Requests that the NS provider provide a connection acceptance token in the
corresponding
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_DEST
This flag is for CLNS service only and is not supported by the
.B NPI-SCTP
provider.  If this flag is set a
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ]
error will be returned in a
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
A default listener Stream is one that will accept connection indications when
no other Stream is associated with the incoming connection.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not currently support the concept of a default listener and sill return
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ]
in a
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive if this flag is set.
.RE
.TP
.IR PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
protocol identifiers to which the endpoint is bound.
.B NPI-SCTP
currently ignores these fields.  At a later date it is possible that this
field could be used for additional protocol identification such as the
Application Layer Information.)
.\"
.SS N_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structures that contain the
.B NPI-SCTP
addresses that were bound.  This filed can contain an integer number of
addresses.
.IP ""
The bound address,
.IR sin_addr ,
returns in this field may be
.BR INADDR_ANY " (if " INADDR_ANY
was requested, or no address was provided to the bind).
However, the
.I sin_port
component of the address will be allocated dynamically and set to a non-zero
port number if zero (indicating any port) was specified on bind, or no address
was provided to the bind.  If a non-zero port number could not be dynamically
allocated,
.RB [ NNOADDR ]
is returned in accordance with
.BR npi (7).
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Indicates the negotiated number of connection indications.  This is normally
the same value as was requested; however, if the user requests number that is
considered too large, this number might be a more conservative value.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
A handle associated with the bound Stream to be used in a subsequent
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive to accept a connection indication from a
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive on this Stream.
.TP
.IR PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
protocol identifiers that were bound to the Stream.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not bind protocol identifiers and these fields will always be indicated
by the
.B NPI-SCTP
NS provider as zero (0).
.\"
.SS N_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.SS N_ERROR_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.SS N_OK_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.PP
The
.I /dev/sctp_n
driver providers a single interface type: connection-oriented network service.
Note, however, that some connectionless network service primitives are
supported.
.\"
.SS N_UNITDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider does not support connectionless mode service and any attempt to issue
this primitive willnormally result in an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the error number
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS N_UNITDATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider does not support connectionless mode service
provider will not issue this primitive.
.\"
.SS N_UDERROR_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider does not support connectionless mode service and
will not issue this primitive.
.\"
.SS N_CONN_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7),
with the quality of service parameters described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above and the following considerations:
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structures that contains the
.B NPI-SCTP
IP addresses to which to connect the Stream.  For connection to multi-homed
.B NPI-SCTP
hosts, this address may contain mutliple
.B sockaddr_in
structures.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connection flags can be a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following
flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDEFAULT_RC_SEL\fR\(em'u
.B REC_CONF_OPT
Receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
uses this flag on connection to determine whether the SCTP association will
support receipt confirmation in either direction.
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Expedited data selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
provides expedited data support regardless of whether this flag is set on
connection or not.
.RE
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
quality of service parameters to use when forming an association with the
peer.  The structure is a
.B N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t
structure of type
.BR N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP .
These quality of service parameter value can be changed with the
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive, or overridden for a specific message with the
.BR N_DATA_REQ "(7) or " N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP ""
Quality of service parameters that have end-to-end significance are:
.IR i_streams " and " o_streams .
Quality of service parameters that have significance at connection are:
.IR ppi ", " sid ", " max_inits ", " max_retrans ", " max_sack ", " rto_init ", " rto_min ", " rto_max ", " rtx_path ", " hb_itvl " and " options .
.\"
.SS N_CONN_CON\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7),
with the quality of service parameters described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above, and the following considerations:
.PP
The primitive is issued by the NS provider when confirming a connection.
.B NPI-SCTP
confirms a connection when a COOKIE-ACK is received for the SCTP association.
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structures that contain the
.B NPI-SCTP
addresses to which the Stream is confirmed connected.  For responding
multi-homed 
.B NPI-SCTP
hosts, this addres may contain multiple
.B sockaddr_in
structures.
.IP ""
Unlike TPI, NPI does not have the ability to query the addresses associated
with an established connection.  The responding address contained in this
field contains the address(es) associated with the remote peer.  It is the
responsibility of the NS user to store this address for later use.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connection flags may be a bitwize OR of zero or more of the following
flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDEFAULT_RC_SEL\fR\(em'u
.B REC_CONF_OPT
Receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
confirms this flag if it was requested in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.  This flag is of local significance.
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Expedited data selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
always confirms this flag, regardless of whether it was requested in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.  This flag is of local significance.
.RE
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning fo the message block of the
options present in the connection request and options that are negotiated
end-to-end.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above.  The option values represent the negotiation with the local provdier as
well as end-to-end negotiation with the SCTP peer.
The structure is a
.B N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t
structure of type
.BR N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP .
.\"
.SS N_CONN_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7),
with the quality of service parameters described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above, and the following considerations:
.PP
The primitive is issued by the NS provider when indicating an incoming
connection request.
.B NPI-SCTP
issues this primitive indicating an incoming connection request when a
COOKIE-ECHO is received initiating an SCTP connection.
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
destination address associated with the local endpoint.  When the local host
is multi-homed, this address can contain multiple
.B sockaddr_in
structures.  These addresses may differ from the addresses to which the local
endpoint was bound (i.e, in the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive), particularly when the local NS provider was bound to a wildcard
address.
Unlike TPI, NPI does not have an address information primitive and it is the
responsibility of the NS user to store these addresses for later use.
.TP
.IR SRC_length ", " SRC_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
source addresses associated with the remote endpoint.  When the remote host is
multi-homed, this address can contain multiple
.B sockaddr_in
structures.  Unlike TPI, NPI has not address information service and it is the
responsibility of the NS user to store these addresses for later use.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
Provides a unique sequence number that identifies this connection indication
for use by the NS user in a subsesuent
.BR N_CONN_RES "(7) or " N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connection flags may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDEFAULT_RC_SEL\fR\(em'u
.B REC_CONF_OPT
Receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
always supports receipt confirmation locally and this flag will be set in all
connection indications.  It is up to the NS user to decide whether this
association should support receipt confirmation and to set or clear the flag
in the
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Expedited data selection and support.
.B NPI-SCTP
always supports expedited data locally and this flag will be set in all
connection indications.
.RE
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options present locally and provided from the remote end.  The structure is a
.B N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t
structure of type
.BR N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP .
Of end-to-end significance are the
.I i_streams " and " o_streams
members of the structure.
See
.IR \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above.
.\"
.SS N_CONN_RES\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7),
with the quality of service parameters described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above, and the following considerations:
.PP
When it receives this primitive, the
.B NPI-SCTP
NS provider will send a COOKIE-ACK to
complete the establishment of an SCTP association.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
Specifies the acceptor identifier of the Stream onto which the connection is
to be accepted.  Any value specified here should be the value of the
.I TOKEN_value
field that was returned in the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive for the associated accepting Stream.
.IP ""
If the connection is to be accepted on the same Stream upon
which the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
was received, this field should be zero (0).  It is an error to accept a
connection on the listening Stream if there is more that one connection
indication outstanding.
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
responding addresses.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not have the ability to provide responding addresses that differ from the
addresses that appeared in the
.IR DEST_length " and " DEST_offset
fields of the associated
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
Specifies the sequence number in the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive to which this primitive is responding.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connection flags may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDEFAULT_RC_SEL\fR\(em'u
.B REC_CONF_OPT
Receipt confirmation selection and support.  This flag is set by the NS user
if receipt confirmation is to be used on the accepting Stream.
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Expedited data selection and support.  This flag is set by the NS user if
expedited data is to be used on the accepting Stream; however, this flag is
ignored by the
.B NPI-SCTP
NS provider and  expedited data is always supported locally.
.RE
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
quality of service parameters requested to the connection.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above.  Quality of service parameters of local significance are negotiated
locally.  Quality of service parameters of end-to-end significance are
negotiated with the peer.  The structure is a
.B N_qos_sel_conn_sctp_t
structure of type
.BR N_QOS_SEL_CONN_SCTP .
Of end-to-end significance are the
.IR i_streams " and " o_streams
members of the structure.
See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
above.
.\"
.SS N_DATA_REQ\fR(7), \fBM_DATA\fR(9)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Data will be sent ordered on the Stream.
.TP
.I DATA_xfer_flags
This field contains option flags for the NIDU.  They can be a bitwise OR of
zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
Specifies that a subsequent
.BR N_DATA_REQ
contains data continuing the same NSDU.  For
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks, the
.B MSGDELIM
flag is used in the same fashion.
.BR M_DATA (9)
messages that result from a 
.BR write (2s)
system call, will have their
.B MSGDELIM
flag checked.
.RB ( MSGDELIM
flags will be set on full
.BR write (2s)
operations.)
When set, the data marks the end of a record.
.TP
.B N_RC_FLAG
Specifies that receipt confirmation is requested for the NSDU.  This flag is
only valid for the last NIDU of an NSDU (i.e. one that has the
.B N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
clear).  When receipt confirmation is requested and the SCTP cummulative
acknowledgement point passes over the TSN assigned to the last segment of the
NSDU, a
.BR N_DATACK_IND (7)
message will be issued to the NS User.
For
.B M_DATA (9)
message blocks, the
.B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
option flag is used in the same fashion.
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks will be sent with receipt confirmation requested if the
.B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
options flag is set for the connection, either via the
.BR N_CONN_REQ "(7), " N_CONN_RES "(7) or " N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitives.
.RE
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
supports an extension of the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive format.  The
.B M_PROTO (7)
message block may contain a
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure immediately following the
.B N_data_req_t
primitive structure, with the following additional fields:
.TP
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP .
.TP
.I ppi
the protocol payload identifier to be placed in the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I sid
the stream identifier to be placed in the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I ssn
the stream sequence number contained in the  SCTP DATA chunk.
(Ignored in
the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive, this value will be overwritten with the next sequential stream
sequence number for the identified stream.)
.TP
.I tsn
the transmission sequence number contained in the SCTP DATA chunk.
(Ignored in
the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive, this value will be overwritten with the next sequential
transmission sequence number for the corresponding association.)
.TP
.I more
a flag indicating whether additional
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitives contain additional data belonging to the same NSDU.
(Ignored in
the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive, this value will be overwritten by the calculated B and E bits for
the SCTP DATA chunk.)
.\"
.SS N_DATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Data was sent ordered on the Stream.
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
supports an extension of the
.BR N_DATA_IND (7)
primitive format.  The
.B M_PROTO (7)
message block may contain a
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure immediately following the
.B N_data_req_t
primitive structure, with the following additional fields:
.TP
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP .
.TP
.I ppi
the protocol payload identifier from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I sid
the stream identifier from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I ssn
the stream sequence number from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I tsn
the transmission sequence number from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I more
the B and E bits from the SCTP DATA chunk.  (This is in fact the entire flags
field from the DATA chunk.  This permits definitions of additional flags and
passing of those flags to the user.)
.\"
.SS N_EXDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Data will be sent unordered on the Stream.
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
supports an extension of the
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive format.  The
.B M_PROTO (7)
message block may contain a
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure immediately following the
.B N_data_req_t
primitive structure, with the following additional fields:
.TP
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP .
.TP
.I ppi
the protocol payload identifier to be placed in the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I sid
the stream identifier to be placed in the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I ssn
the stream sequence number to be placed in the SCTP DATA chunk.  (This would
normally be zero for unordered data, however, some applications may pass data
in this field.)
.TP
.I tsn
the transmission sequence number contained in the SCTP DATA chunk.
(Ignored in
the
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive, this value will be overwritten with the next sequential
transmission sequence number for the corresponding association.)
.TP
.I more
a flag indicating whether additional
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitives contain additional data belonging to the same ENSDU.
(Ignored in
the
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive, this value will be overwritten by the calculated B and E bits for
the SCTP DATA chunk.)
.\"
.SS N_EXDATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Data was sent unordered on the Stream.
.PP
.B NPI-SCTP
supports an extension of the
.BR N_DATA_IND (7)
primitive format.  The
.B M_PROTO (7)
message block may contain a
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure immediately following the
.B N_data_req_t
primitive structure, with the following additional fields:
.TP
.I n_qos_type
always
.BR N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP .
.TP
.I ppi
the protocol payload identifier from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I sid
the stream identifier from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I ssn
the stream sequence number from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I tsn
the transmission sequence number from the SCTP DATA chunk.
.TP
.I more
the B and E bits from the SCTP DATA chunk.  (This is in fact the entire flags
field from the DATA chunk.  This permits definitions of additional flags and
passing of those flags to the user.)
.\"
.SS N_DATACK_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
The previous primitive indicating reception of data that indicated receipt
confirmation (i.e,
.BR N_DATA_IND (7))
is confirmed received by the user.
.\"
.SS N_DATACK_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
The previous primitive requesting transmission of data that requested receipt
confirmation (i.e, 
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7))
is confirmed received by the peer.
.\"
.SS N_RESET_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support a remote reset procedure; however, this primitive is
supported locally.  Issuing this primitive will cause the NS provider to
respond with a
.BR N_RESET_CON (7)
primitive once it receives the primitive.  This permits the NS user to
determine when all
.BR N_DATA_REQ "(7) and " N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitives preceding the
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7)
have been received by the NS provider.  (At a later date it may be possible to
use this to reset the stream sequence number or transmission sequence number.)
.\"
.SS N_RESET_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support a remote reset procedure and will not issue this primitive.
(At a later date it may be possible to use this to indicate that the stream
sequence number or transmission sequence number has been reset.)
.\"
.SS N_RESET_RES\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.B NPI-SCTP
does not issue an
.BR N_RESET_IND (7)
primitive and the NS user should not, therefore, issue this primitive in
response.  (At a later date it may be possible to use this to allow the NS
user to respond to a stream sequence number or transmission sequence number
reset.)
.\"
.SS N_RESET_CON\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.B NPI-SCTP
does not support a remote reset procedure.  Therefore, this primitive is only
issued in confirmation of the receipt of a
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.SS N_DISCON_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
This will result in the refusal of any outstanding
.B NPI-SCTP
connection indication or an abortive release of an existing
.B NPI-SCTP
association.
.TP
.IR DISCON_reason
Specifies the reason for disconnect and may be one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llbllss.
\fISEQ_number:\fIDISCON_reason:\fRType:\fRDescription
_
Zero:N_DISC_NORMAL:Discon:T{
Normal condition.
T}
:N_DISC_ABNORMAL:Discon:T{
Abnormal condition.
T}
_
Non-zero:N_REJ_P:Reject:T{
Permanent condition.
T}
:N_REJ_T:Reject:T{
Temporary condition.
T}
:N_REJ_INCOMPAT_INFO:Reject:T{
Incompatible information in NS-User-Data.
T}
:N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P:Reject:T{
QOS unavailable (permanent condition).
T}
:N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T:Reject:T{
QOS unavailable (temporary condition).
T}
:N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED:Reject:T{
Reason unspecified.
T}
_
.TE
.PP
The
.I DISCON_reason
is currently ignored by
.BR NPI-SCTP ,
which simply sends an ABORT with the
.B SCTP_CAUSE_USER_INITIATED
cause under SCTP.
That is, all
.I DISCON_reason
codes form the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive map into
.BR SCTP_CAUSE_USER_INITIATED .
.RE
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
responding addresses.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not have the ability to provide responding addresses that differ from the
addresses that appeared in the
.IR DEST_length " and " DEST_offset
fields of the associated
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.IR SEQ_number
When rejecting an incoming connection on a listening Stream, this field is set
to the
.I SEQ_number
that was present in the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive representing the incoming connection that is being rejected.
In all other cases (i.e, disconnecting an established association), this field
should be set to zero (0) by the NS user.
.\"
.SS N_DISCON_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
This indicates the refusal of an outstanding
.B NPI-SCTP
outgoing connection request, or the abortive release of an existing
.B NPI-SCTP
association.
.TP
.IR DISCON_orig ", " DISCON_reason
The disconnect origin and reason may be one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblbllss.
\fIDISCON_org:\fIDISCON_reason:\fRType:\fRDescription
_
N_PROVIDER:N_DISC_P:Discon:T{
Permanent condition.
T}
:N_DISC_T:Discon:T{
Temporary condition.
T}
:N_REJ_NSAP_UNKNOWN:Reject:T{
NSAP address unknown (permanent condition).
T}
:N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_P:Reject:T{
NSAP address ureachable (permanent condition).
T}
:N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_T:Reject:T{
NSAP address unreachable (temporary condition).
T}
_
N_USER:N_DISC_NORMAL:Discon:T{
Normal condition.
T}
:N_DISC_ABNORMAL:Discon:T{
Abnormal condition.
T}
:N_REJ_P:Reject:T{
Permanent condition.
T}
:N_REJ_T:Reject:T{
Temporary condition.
T}
:N_REJ_INCOMPAT_INFO:Reject:T{
Incompatible information in NS-User-Data.
T}
_
\fREither:N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P:Reject:T{
QOS unavailable (permanent condition).
T}
:N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T:Reject:T{
QOS unavailable (temporary condition).
T}
:N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED:Reject:T{
Reason unspecified.
T}
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
responding addresses.
.B NPI-SCTP
does not have to ability to have responding addresses that are different from
those indicated in the
.IR SRC_length " and " SRC_offset
fields of the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primitive.
.B NPI-SCTP
will always set these fields to zero (0).
.TP
.I SEQ_number
The sequence number of a currently outstanding connection indication to which
the disconnect corresponds.  This value is non-zero only on a listening Stream
for which an outstanding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
primmitive has been issued with not
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
or
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive having been issued by the NS user with the same sequence number.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.BR NPI-SCTP
interface has a cleaner and simpler interface to SCTP than the
.BR tpi_sctp (7)
interface, yet has some richer features such as receipt confirmation.  It is
more suitable for use as an internal service interface by
.IR STREAMS (9)
pushable modules and multiplexing drivers.  It is therefore the service
interface of choice for
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
modules and drivers.
.PP
In constrast, the TPI-SCTP interface,
.BR tpi_sctp (7)
is more suitable for user-space programs and supports the
.BR libxnet (3)
XTI/TLI library.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B NPI-SCTP
provider does not supoprt input-output controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
Error handling is in accordance with
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Errors are in accordance with
.BR npi (7).
They are repeated here as follows:
.\"
.SS "Error Acknowledgement Codes"
.PP
The following error codes can be present in the
.I NPI_error
field of the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive:
.TP \w'[\fBNBADQOSPARAM\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format,
or the address contained illegal information.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ NBADOPT ]
The options values as specified in the primitive were in an incorrect format,
or they contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSPARAM ]
The QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSTYPE ]
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADTOKEN ]
Token used is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.RB [ NNOADDR ]
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NBADSEQ ]
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADFLAG ]
The flags specified in the primitive were incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ]
Specified primitive type is not known to the NS provider.
.PD
.\"
.SS "Disconnect Codes"
.PP
The following error codes can be present in the
.I DISCON_reason
field of the
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive:
.TP \w'[\fBNBADQOSPARAM\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ETIMEDOUT ]
connection timed out.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ ECONNRESET ]
connection reset by peer.
.TP
.RB [ ECONNABORTED ]
connection aborted.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
protocol violation.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
invalid SCTP parameter.
.TP
.RB [ EMSGSIZE ]
invalid message size.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SCTP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.BR sctp_n (4)
implementation that provides
.BR npi (7)
access to the
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
version of
.BR SCTP .
For more information on the
.I OpenSS7
Linux NET4 version, see
.BR sctp (7).
.PP
The use of the
.B N_qos_sel_data_sctp_t
structure of type
.B N_QOS_SEL_DATA_SCTP
immediately following the
.BR N_DATA_REQ "(7) or " N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive does not strictly follow the 
.BR npi (7).
Applications wishing to strictly follow the
.BR npi (7)
will not include these structures and will, instead, issue a (non-priority)
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive ahead of the
.BR N_DATA_REQ "(7) or " N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive to set the default QOS parameters as required for the issued packet.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/sctp_n
the
.BR npi (7)
device for
.BR sctp (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (7),
.BR sctp (4),
.BR sctp_n (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B NPI-TPI
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
Network Provider Interface (NPI) Revision 2.0.0.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
New for
.BR "@PACAKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

