'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: clns.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/12/15 20:20:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/12/15 20:20:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: clns.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:28  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/10 10:44:02  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/03 13:24:21  brian
.\" - file additions and removals for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:12  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CLNS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B clns
\- ISO Connectionless Network Service (CLNS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/np.h>
.PP
.IB clns_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/clns\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.PP
.IB clns_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/clns_cm\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CLNS
is an implementation of X.213
.[
x213
.]
Connectionless Network Service (CLNS).
.PP
There are several ways of providing the ISO CLNS as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The classical way is using
X.25 as described in X.622.
.[
x622
.]
.IP 2.
Another way is providing CLNS over X.25, but providing X.25 using an X.25 over
TCP protocol such as
.BR xot (4)
as described in RFC 1613,
.[
rfc1613
.]
or a similar SCTP protocol.
.IP 3.
Also, CLNS can be provided directly over IP,
.BR iso-ip (4),
as described in RFC 1070.
.[
rfc1070
.]
.IP 4.
CLNS can be provided over UDP,
.BR iso-udp (4),
as also described in RFC 1070.
.[
rfc1070
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
A user of the CLNS service opens a pseudo-device driver by opening the clone
device
.BR /dev/clns .
This yields a CLNS Stream.  When the user binds the Stream to a local NSAP,
the form of the NSAP determines which of the underlying protocols are used to
provide service to the CLNS Stream.
.PP
A CLNS Stream is associated with an underlying provider in the following
fashion:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the CLNS Stream is bound, using the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive, the driver uses the NSAP to determine whether a suitable provider
exists, and if it does, the Stream is associated with the provider.  If a
suitable provider does not yet exist, a request is issued to a connection
manager daemon (CLNS CM) listening on the connection managemnt (CM) Stream.
.IP \(bu
The CLNS CM satisfies a request by opening a provider Stream of the
appropriate type, binding it and linking it under the CLNS multiplexing
driver.  It responds to the request with the multiplexer identifier that was
returned from the
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation to identify the provider Stream to the CLNS driver.
.IP ""
If an error occurs while attempting to open and bind the provider Stream, the
CLNS CM will respond with a negative acknowledgement on the CM Stream and the
CLNS driver will transform the negative acknowledgement into an appropriate
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive that is issued to the CLNS User.
.IP \(bu
The connection manager satisfies specific requests by examining the NSAP
contained in the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive, and using information concerning routing and the reachability of
addresses.  The NSAP can be one of 3 forms:
.IP ""
.RS
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
An X.121
.[
x121
.]
or other X.25 address (e.g. ISDN).
The CLNS CM opens the appropriate X.25 PLP,
.BR plp (4),
or other connection oriented Stream (e.g, ISDN) binds and connects the Stream
and then links it under the CLNS multiplexing driver.
.IP 2.
A Internet NSAP per RFC 1069
.[
rfc1069
.]
without a TCP/IP port number.
The CLNS CM opens a
.BR rawip (4)
driver, pushes the
.BR iso-ip (4)
module onto the Stream (or opens a rawip device that autopushes iso-ip), and
binds the Stream appropriately and links it under the CLNS multiplexing
driver.
.IP 3.
A Internet NSAP per RFC 1069
.[
rfc1069
.]
including a TCP/IP port number.
The CLNS CM opens a
.BR udp (4)
driver, pushes the
.BR iso-udp (4)
module onto the Stream (or opens a udp device that autopushes iso-udp), and
binds the Stream appropriately and links it under the CLNS multiplexing
driver.
.RE
.IP \(bu
The CLNS CM can distinguish further between requested provider using
information from the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive, so long as the linked Stream used to satisfy the request provides
the ISO Connectionless Network Service defined by X.213
.[
x213
.]
using the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7).
(Examples are ISO DL SNCF
.[
x623
.]
and ISDN
.[[\fB
x625
.]\fR].)
.IP \(bu
Provider Streams may also be linked under the CLNS multiplexing driver at
configuration time using static configuration information obtained from
configuration files.  (For example the
.BR /etc/eno_es
and
.BR /etc/eno_is
files.)
.IP \(bu
Provider Streams may also be linked under the CLNS multiplexing driver as the
result of routing discovery protocols or interface changes.  (An example of
routing discovery protocols are the ES-IS,
.[
iso/iec 9542 : 1988
.]
.[
rfc995
.]
IS-IS,
.[
iso/iec 10589 : 1992
.]
.[
rfc1142
.]
and IRDP
.[
iso/iec 10747 : 1992
.]
protocols.)
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The CLNS User interface on the upper multiplex is the Network Provider
Interace (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
supporting the Connectionless Service (CLNS) of the ISO Network Service
Interface, X.213.
.[
x213
.]
.PP
The CLNS Provider interface on the lower multiplex is the Network
Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
supporting either the Connectionless Service (CLNS) or Connection-Oriented
Service (CONS) of the ISO Network Service Interface, X.213.
.[
x213
.]
.PP
The CLNS CM (Connection Management) interface on the connection management
(CM) Stream is a specialised interface specific to the CLNS driver, but is
based on the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
supporting the ISO Network Service Interface, X.213.
.[
x213
.]
Details of this interface are described under
.RI \(lq PRIMITIVES \(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
CLNS supports the addresses and NSAPs identified in X.213,
.[
x213
.]
as discussed in X.233.
.[
x233
.]
This address can take multiple forms including the Internet NSAP form as
described in RFC 1069,
.[
rfc1069
.]
RFC 1277
.[
rfc1277
.]
or RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
The later form of the NSAP is used to distinguish the need for an ISO Network
Service supported over IP,
.BR iso-ip (4),
UDP,
.BR iso-udp (4)
or SCTP,
.BR iso-sctp (4).
Addresses are NSAP addresses (initial octet and 20-byte address) used on
public X.25 networks or a null NSAP for the null network service for private
networks (then only the SNAP address is used).  See the CLNS specification.
.[
x233
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
CLNS User Streams support the full set of Quality of Service parameters are
specified in the CLNS specification X.213;
.[
x213
.]
however, negotiation of Quality of Service paramters is performed between the
CLNS User and the underlying NS provider.  Therfore, QOS parameters supported
to the CLNS User is dependent upon the QOS support of the underlying provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
Primitives supported by the CLNS User Streams are the full set of OSI
conforming Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
primitives supporting Connectionless Network Service (CLNS).
.PP
CLNS CM Streams support a specialised set of primitives, based on NPI
primitives, that provide the ability for the CLNS CM to receive requests for
new providers as well as the ability to indicate the result of those
requests.
.PP
CLNS CM requests and responses are formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct clns_mgmt {
    np_ulong cm_user;           /* User index */
    np_ulong cm_prov;           /* Provider index */
    union N_primitives cm_prim; /* Primitive */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIcm_user\fR\(em'u
.I cm_user
is the user index.  The user index identifies the CLNS User that originated
the request.
.TP
.I cm_prov
is the provider index.  The provider index identifies a CONS or CLNS provider
that will satisfy the request.
an
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation that was used to link the Stream under the CLNS multiplexing driver.
.TP
.I cm_prim
is the primitive.  The exact format of the primitive and the size of the
remainder of the structure can be determined by the
.I cm_prim.type
field of the
.B N_primitives
union.  The
.B N_primitives
union is defined in the
.RB < sys/npi.h >
header file.
.PP
The
.B clns_mgmt
structure is contained in the control part
.RB ( M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block) of the request or response.
Any data is contained in the data part
.RB ( M_DATA (9)
message blocks) of the request or response.  The type of the command is
determined from the
.I cm_prim.type
field in the
.B clns_mgmt
structure.
The
.B clns_mgmt
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/clns.h >
header file.
.PP
Overloaded primitives are as follows:
.TP
.B Bind Request
The bind request is issued to the CLNS CM on the CM Stream when a suitable
provider could not be found to satisfy a CLNS User bind request,
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7).
This primitive requires an acknowledgement by the CLNS CM with
either a bind acknowledgement or an error acknowledgement.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIcm_user\fR\(em'u
.I cm_user
Indicates the index within the CLNS driver of the CLNS User at which the
request originated.  This is an opaque identifier that the CLNS CM uses in the
bind or error acknowledgement to identify the transaction.
.TP
.I cm_prov
Ignored in the bind request.
.TP
.I cm_prim
Contains the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive as it was issued by the CLNS User.
.RE
.TP
.B Bind Acknowledgement
The bind acknowledgement is issued by the CLNS CM on the CM
Stream when a suitable provider has been bound and linked beneath the CLNS
multiplexing driver.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIcm_user\fR\(em'u
.I cm_user
Specifies the user index from the corresponding bind request.
.TP
.I cm_prov
Specifies the multiplexer identifier (returned by the
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation) that identifies the provider Stream to which the bind ocurred.
.TP
.I cm_prim
Contains the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive as it should be issued to the CLNS User.
.RE
.TP
.B Error Acknowledgement
The error acknowledgement is issued by the CLNS CM on the CM Stream when the
bind to the provider was not possible and resulted in an error.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIcm_user\fR\(em'u
.I cm_user
Specifies the user index from the corresponding bind request.
.TP
.I cm_prov
Specifies the provider index from the corresponding bind request.
.TP
.I cm_prim
Contains the
.B N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive as it should be issued to the CLNS User.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
CLNS Streams do not support any CLNS-specific input-output controls.  The CLNS
CM Stream supports the
.BR I_LINK "(7), " I_PLINK "(7), " I_UNLINK "(7) and " I_PUNLINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output controls described under
.BR streamio (7).
When a CLNS CM links a provider Stream under the multiplexing driver using
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7),
the CLNS driver determines the characteristics of the provider by issuing a
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive on the provider Stream and processing the
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
response.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Configuration is according to both ISO/IEC 8473
.[
iso8473
.]
and
ISO/IEC 9542.
.[
iso9542
.]
For each interface, the following information applies:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Whether the Network systems is acting as an End System, an Intermediate System, a SNARE, or
combinations of these.
.IP \(bu
Whether the Network system is supporting Configuration Information, Route Redirection Information,
ES Address Configuration, and IS Address Configuration. (IS Address Configuration is provdided using
a separate user-level application.)
.IP \(bu
Statically configured NSAPs for the network interface.
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.\"
.\"
.SS cLNS
.PP
.TP
.B cLNS-P Package
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I administrativeState
.TP
.I clProtocolMachineId
.TP
.I supportedProtocols
.TP
.I operationalSystemType
.RE
.TP
.B cLNS8473-P Package
Present if the protocol defined in ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 is used to implement the CLNS.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I octetsSentCOunter
.TP
.I octetsReceivedCounter
.TP
.I segmentsReceived
.TP
.I segmentsSent
.TP
.I segmentsDiscarded
.TP
.I assemblingSegmentsDiscarded
.TP
.I errorReportsReceived
.TP
.I pDUDiscards
.TP
.I congestionDiscards
.TP
.I maximumLifetime
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSChecksum-P Package
Present if the ITU-T REc. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 Generate Checksum option is implemented.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I enabledChecksum
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSISISBasic-P Package
Present if the system is an ISO 10589 Intermediate System.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I version
.TP
.I iSType
The type of this Intermediate System.  The value of this attribute is only settable via the create
parameter.  It has values level1IS(1) or level2IS(2).
.TP
.I systemId
The ID for the local system, to be appended to each of the systems's area address(es) to form the
Network Identity Titles valie for this IS.  The derivation of a value for SystemId is a local
matter.  OCTET STRING(SIZE(0..8)).
.TP
.I maximumPathSplits
Maximum number of paths which it is permitted to split traffic between.  INTEGER(1..32).
.TP
.I minimumLSPTransmissionInterval
Minimum interval between retransmissions of an LSP.
.TP
.I maximumLSPGenerationInterval
Maximum interval between generated LSPs by this system.
.TP
.I minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval
Minimum interval between transmission of LSP on a broadcast circuit (See clause 7.3.15.6).  This
timer shall be capable of a resolution not coarser than 10 ms.
.TP
.I completeSNPInterval
Interval between generation of Complete Sequence Numbers PDUs by a Designated Intermediate System on
a broadcast circuit.
.TP
.I originatingL1LSPBufferSize
The maximum size of Level 1 LSPs and SNPs originated by this system.  INTEGER(512..1492).
.TP
.I manualAreaAddresses
Area Addresses to be used for this Intermediate System.  At least one value must be supplied.  The
maximum number of Area Addresses which may exist in the set is maximumAreaAddresses.  SET OF OCTET
STRING(SIZE(0..20)).
.TP
.I maximumAreaAddresses
Maximum number of area addresses to be permitted for this ISs area.  Note that all ISs in the area
mst have the same value configured for this attribute if correct operation is to be assured.
INTEGER(0..254).
.TP
.I minimumLSPGenerationInterval
Minimum interval between successive generation of LSPs with the same LSP ID by this IS.
.TP
.I pollESHelloRate
The value to be used for the suggested ES configuration timer in ISH PDUs when soliciting the ES
configuration.
.TP
.I partialSNPInterval
Minimum interval between sending Partial Sequence Number PDUs.
.TP
.I waitingTime
Amount of time to delay in waiting state before entering On state.
.TP
.I dRISISHelloTimer
The interval between the generation of IIH PDUs by the designated IS on a LAN.
.TP
.I l1State
The state of the Level 1 database.  Values are: off(0), on(1) or waiting(2).
.TP
.I areaAddresses
The union of the sets of manualAreaAddresses reported in all Level 1 Link State PDUs received from
this Intermediate System.  SET OF OCTET STRING(SIZE(0..20)).
.TP
.I corruptedLSPsDetected
Number of Corrupted LSP Detected events generated.
.TP
.I lSPL1DatabaseOverloads
Number of times the l1LSPDatabaseOverload even has been generated.
.TP
.I manualAddressesDroppedFromArea
Number of times the manualAddressDroppedFromArea even has been generated.
.TP
.I attemptsToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber
.TP
.I sequenceNumberSkips
.TP
.I ownLSPPurges
.TP
.I iDFieldLengthMismatches
.TP
.I maximumAreaAddressesMismatches
.TP
.I originatingLSPBuffersSizeMismatches
.TP
.I lSPTooLargeToPropagate
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSISISAuthentication-P Package
Present if the system is an ISO 10589 IS and the authentication procedures are implemented.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I areaTransmitPassword
.TP
.I areaReceivePasswords
.TP
.I authenticationFailures
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSISISLevel2-P Package
Present if the system is an ISO 10589 Level 2 IS and the partition repair procedures are
implemented.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I maximumVirtualAdjacencies
.TP
.I paritionAreaAddresses
.TP
.I partitionDesignatedL2IntermediateSsytem
.TP
.I partitionVirtualLinkChanges
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSISISLevel2-P Package
Present if the system is an ISO 10589 Level 2 IS.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I originatingL2LSPBufferSize
.TP
.I l2State
.TP
.I lSPL2DatabaseOverloads
.RE
.TP
.B cLNSISISLevel2Authentication-P Package
Present if the system is an ISO 10589 Level 2 IS and the authentication procedrues are implemented.
This package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I domainTransmitPassword
.TP
.I domainReceivePasswords
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS Linkage
.PP
For each linkage between a subnetwork and this network entity (subnetwork point of attachment), the
following information is maintained:
.TP
.B linkage-P Package
This mandatory package contains the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I linkageId
The naming attribute of the linkage MO instance.
.TP
.I operationalState
The operational state of the linkage.
.TP
.I administativeState
The administrative state of the linkage.
.TP
.I sN-ServiceProvider
Distinguished name of the SN service provider MO.  This attribute identifies the subnetwork entity
to be used to support the linkage, when enable.  The subnetwork service provider may be in the
Datalink Layer, or it may be in the Nework Layer (for example when operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 |
ISO/IEC 8473-1 over the ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 SNDCF).
.TP
.I sN-SAP
Distringuished name of the service provider SAP MO (if present).  This is obtained via an internal
interface when the linkage is enabled.  The sN-SAP may be a relationship to an SAP MO in the
Datalink Layer, or it may be a relationship to another Managed Object within the Network Layer which
is not an SAP MO.  For example, when operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over the ISO/IEC
8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 SNDCF, it is a relationship to the same x25PLE-DTE MO which is pointed to by
the sN-ServiceProvider Attribute.
.TP
.I operationalProtocols
The set of network layer protocols supported by this instance of the linkage MO, expressed as the
registered OBJECT IDENTIFIERs of the relevant International Standard.  The value is a SET OF a
sequence of an OBJECT IDENTIFIER identifying the protocol, a SET OF operational protocol versions
which can include iSO8208V1(0), iSO8208V2(1), x2584(2) or x2588(3), and a SET OF defects repaired
which is an OPTIONAL SET OF OBJECT IDENTIFIERs.
.RE
.TP
.B linkage-ISO9542IS-P Package
This conditional package is present if suport for ISO 9542 operating as an Intermediate System (IS).
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I iSO9542OperationalSubsets
The set of ISO 9542 subsets operation on this linkage.  The values are a combination of:
configuration(0) and redirection(1).
.TP
.I holdingTimerMultiplier
The factor to derive the holding timer from configuration timer.  This value, when multiplied by a
configuration timer yeilds the value of the holding timer parameter issued with configuration
information.  The semantics of this parameter are such that it is permissible to also add a delta
value to the result to compensate for possible delays and imprecision of timers.  The result of the
calculation is truncated, upon overflow, to the maximum value for the paramter permitted by the
protocol (65535).  The value is an INTEGER.
.TP
.I iSConfigurationTimer
Value in seconds for the ISO 9542 IS configuration timer.  It is used to determine how often an IS
reports configuration infomration to ESs.
.TP
.I sugggestedESConfigurationTimer
Value to be used for the ISO 9542 suggested ES configuration timer value (in seconds), advertized in
IS hellos generated by this network entity.
.TP
.I redirectHoldingTime
The holding time (in seconds) to be specified in Redirect PDUs generated by this system.
.TP
.I eSReachabilityChanges
Count of the number of changes in reachability of End Systems from this system.
.TP
.I invalid9542PDUs
Counter of invalid 9542 PDUs received.   This is the number of ISO 9542 PDUs received which are
discarded as a result of the PDU Header Error Detection or Protocol Error Processing Functions
specified in ISO 9542.
.RE
.TP
.B linkage-ISO9542ES-P Package
.RS
This conditional package is present if support for ISO 9542 operating as an End System (ES) is
supported.
The package provides the following attributes:
.TP
.I iSO9542OperationalSubsets
The set of ISO 9542 subsets operation on this linkage.  The values are a combination of:
configuration(0) and redirection(1).
.TP
.I holdingTimerMultiplier
The factor to derive the holding timer from configuration timer.  This value, when multiplied by a
configuration timer yeilds the value of the holding timer parameter issued with configuration
information.  The semantics of this parameter are such that it is permissible to also add a delta
value to the result to compensate for possible delays and imprecision of timers.  The result of the
calculation is truncated, upon overflow, to the maximum value for the paramter permitted by the
protocol (65535).  The value is an INTEGER.
.TP
.I manualISSNPAAddress
The set of SNPA Addresses to which calls associated with the SNDCF are to be established in the
absense of any other information.  The maximum set cardinality shall be implementation specific.  An
attempt to set the value of an element of this set to a type of SNPAAddress which is not supported
by this linkage shall result in a failure of the SET operation.  The value is a SET OF SNPAAddress,
where an SNPAAddress is a sequence of a type and an address where the type is an OBJECT IDENTIFIER
and the address is an OCTET STRING.  The type OBJECT IDENTIFIERS defined are
.B { joint-iso-ccitt(2) network-layer(13) management(0) nLM(2) standardSpecificExtensions(0) sNPAAddressType(5) dTEAddress(1) }
.I \\\\0x5d\\\\0x00\\\\0x02\\\\0x00\\\\0x05\\\\0x01
for a DTE address and
.B { joint-iso-ccitt(2) network-layer(13) management(0) nLM(2) standardSpecificExtensions(0) sNPAAddressType(5) mACAddress(2) }
.I \\\\0x5d\\\\0x00\\\\0x02\\\\0x00\\\\0x05\\\\0x02
for a MAC address.
.TP
.I defaultESConfigTimer
Default value for the ISO 9542 ES configuration timer in seconds.  This value is used when the ES
has not received, or has not chosen to accept, a suggested configuration timer value from an
Intermediate System.
.TP
.I activeESConfigTimer
Currently active value for the ISO 9542 ES configuration timer in seconds.
.TP
.I iSReachabilityChanges
Counter of the number of changes in reachability of Intermediate Systems from this system.
.TP
.I invalid9542PDUs
Counter of invalid 9542 PDUs received.   This is the number of ISO 9542 PDUs received which are
discarded as a result of the PDU Header Error Detection or Protocol Error Processing Functions
specified in ISO 9542.
.RE
.TP
.B linkage-ISO9542Checksum-P Package
This conditional package is present if support for ISO 9542 PDU Header Checksum Generation function
is provided.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I enableChecksum
.RE
.TP
.B linkageInitialMinimumTimer-P Package
This package is present if support for the initial minimum timer attribute of the ITU-T Rec. X.233 |
ISO/IEC 8473-1 SNDCF when operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over an ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T
Rec. X.25 or CO Datalink Service.
.[
x622
.]
.[
x623
.]
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I initialMinimumTimer
Controls the ability, when implemented, of an ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 or CO Data link SNDCF
for ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 to close an established Virtual Call when it is idle, but only
after a minimum time after its establishment.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageReserveTimer-P Package
This conditional package is present if there is support for the reserve timer attribute of the ITU-T
Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 SNDCF when operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over an ISO/IEC
8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 or CO Datalink Service.
.[
x622
.]
.[
x623
.]
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I reserveTimer
Controls the ability, when implemented, of an ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 or CO Dtaalink SNDCF
for ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 to close an established Virtual Call when it is idle, but
retain resources for its re-establishment.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageIdleTimer-P Package
This conditional package is present if there is support for the idle timer attribute of the ITU-T
Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 SNDCF when operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over an ISO/IEC
8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 or CO Datalink Service.
.[
x622
.]
.[
x623
.]
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I idleTimer
Controls the ability, when implemented, of an ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T Rec. X.25 or CO Datalink SNDCF
for ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 to close an established Virtual Call when it is idle.
.[
x622
.]
.RE
.TP
.B linkage-ISO8473-ISO8208SNDCF-P Package
This conditional package is present if operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over ISO/IEC 8208
or ITU-T Rec. X.25.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I callsPlaced
Counter fo the number of X.25 VCs successfully established by the SNDCF.
.TP
.I callsFailed
Count of the number of X.25 call failures while attempting establishment by the SNDCF.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageCODLService-P Package
This conditional package is present if operating ITU-T Rec. X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473-1 over the CO
Datalink Service.
.[
x623
.]
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I callsPlaced
Counter fo the number of CO Datalink connections successfully established by the SNDCF.
.TP
.I callsFailed
Count of the number of CO Datalink connection failures while attempting establishment by the SNDCF.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISBasic-P
This conditional package is present if the system is an ISO 10589 Intermediate System (IS).
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I type
The type of circuit.  This attribute may only be set when the linkage MO is created.  Subsequently
it is read-only.  It can take on values: broadcast(0), ptToPt(1), staticIn(2), staticOut(3), dA(4).
.TP
.I iSISHelloTimer
The period between IIH PDUs.  It is also used as the period between ISH PDUs when polling the ES
configuration.
.TP
.I l1DefaultMetric
The default metric value of this circuit for Level 1 traffic.  Can take on values 0..63.
.TP
.I l1DelayMetric
The default metric value of this circuit for Level 1 traffic.  The value of zero is reserved to
indicate that this metric is not supported.
Can take on values 0..63.
.TP
.I l1ExpenseMetric
The expense metric value of this circuit for Level 1 traffic.  The value of zero is reserved to
indicate that this metric is not supported.
Can take on values 0..63.
.TP
.I l1ErrorMetric
The error metric value of this circuit for Level 1 traffic.  The value of zero is reserved to
indicate that this metric is not supported.
Can take on values 0..63.
.TP
.I externalDomain
Boolean.  If true, suppresses normal transmission of an interpretation of Intra-domain ISIS PDUs on
this circuit.
.TP
.I changesInAdjacencyState
Number of adjacency state change events generated.
.TP
.I intialisationFailures
Number of initialization failure events generated.
.TP
.I rejectedAdjacencies
Number of rejected adjacency events generated.
.TP
.I iSISControlPDUsSent
Number of control PDUs sent on this circuit.
.TP
.I iSISControlPDUsReceived
Number of control PDUs received on this circuit.
.TP
.I iDFieldLengthMismatches
Number of times the ID field length mismatch event has been generated.
.TP
.I maximumAreaAddressesMismatches
Count of the maximum aread addresses mismatch events.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISAuthentication-P
This conditional package is present if the authentication procedures are implemented on an ISO 10589
IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I circuitTransmitPassword
The value to be used as a transmit password in IIH PDUs transmitted by this Intermediate System.  It
is an OCTET STRING of size 0..254.
.TP
.I circuitReceivePasswords
The values to be used as receive passwords to check the receipt of IIH PDUs.  It is a SET OF OCTET
STRING of size 0..254.
.TP
.I authenticationFailures
Count of the authentication failure events.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISBroadcast-P
This conditional package is present if the linkage is a broadcast circuit on an ISO 10589 IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I l1IntermediateSystemPriority
Priority for becoming LAN Level 1 Designated Intermediate System (0..127).
.TP
.I l1CircuitId
The LAN ID allocated by the LAN Level 1 Designated Intermediate System.  Where this system is not
aware of the value (because it is not participating in the Level 1 Designated Intermediate System
election), this attribute has the value which would be proposed for this circuit. (i.e. the
concatentaiton of the local system ID and the one octet local Circuit ID for this circuit.
This is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(2..9)).
.TP
.I l1DesignatedIntermediateSystem
The ID of the LAN Level 1 Designated Intermediate System on this circuit.  If, for any reason this
system is not partaking in the relevant Designated Intermedate System election process, then the
value returned is the zero length OCTET STRING.
This is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(0..8)).
.TP
.I lanL1DestinatedIntermediateSystemChanges
Number of LAN L1 Designated Intermediate System Change events generated.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISDACallEstablishmentMetricIncrement-P
This conditional package is present if the linkage is a DA Circuit and support is implemented for
call establishment metric increment values greater than zero on an ISO/IEC 10589 IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I callEstablishmentDefaultMetricIncrement
Additonal value to be reported for the default metric value of unestablished DA adjacencies.
The value is 0..63.
.TP
.I callEstablishmentDelayMetricIncrement
Additonal value to be reported for the delay metric value of unestablished DA adjacencies.
The value is 0..63.
.TP
.I callEstablishmentExpenseMetricIncrement
Additonal value to be reported for the expense metric value of unestablished DA adjacencies.
The value is 0..63.
.TP
.I callEstablishmentErrorMetricIncrement
Additonal value to be reported for the error metric value of unestablished DA adjacencies.
The value is 0..63.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISPtToPt-P
This conditional package is present if the linkage is a point to point circuit on an ISO 10589 IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I ptPtCircuitID
The ID of the circuit allocated during initialization.  If no value has been negotiated (either
because adjacency is to an End system, or because initialization has not yet successfully
completed), this attribute has the value which would be proposed for this circuit.  (i.e. the
concatenation of the local system ID and the one octet local Circuit ID for this circuit.
The value is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(2..9)).
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISStatic-P
This conditional package is present if the linkage is an X.25 static circuit (IN or OUT) on an ISO
10589 IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I outgoingCallIVMO
Refernece to the virtualCallIVMO to be used to estbalish communication with a neigbour over this
circuit.  This IVMO contains, amoung other things, the SNPA Address to use as the called address.
.TP
.I ptPtCircuitID
The ID of the circuit allocated during initialization.  If no value has been negotiated (either
because adjacency is to an End system, or because initialization has not yet successfully
completed), this attribute has the value which would be proposed for this circuit.  (i.e. the
concatenation of the local system ID and the one octet local Circuit ID for this circuit.
The value is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(2..9)).
.TP
.I neighbourSNPAAddress
The SNPA address of the neighbour system.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISLevel2-P
This conditional package is present if the system is an ISO/IEC 10589 Level 2 IS.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I l2DefaultMetric
The default metric value of this circuit for Level 2 traffic.
Values are 0..63.
.TP
.I l2DelayMetric
The delay metric value of this circuit for Level 2 traffic.
The value of zero is reserved to indicate that this metric is not supported.
Values are 0..63.
.TP
.I l2ExpenseMetric
The expense metric value of this circuit for Level 2 traffic.
The value of zero is reserved to indicate that this metric is not supported.
Values are 0..63.
.TP
.I l2ErrorMetric
The error metric value of this circuit for Level 2 traffic.
The value of zero is reserved to indicate that this metric is not supported.
Values are 0..63.
.TP
.I manualL2OnlyMode
Boolean.  When true, indicates that this circuit is to be used only for level 2.
.RE
.TP
.B linkageISISLevel2Broadcast-P
This conditional package is present if the linkage is a broadcast circuit on in ISO 10589 Level 2
Intermedate System.
The package provides the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I l2IntermediateSystemPriority
Priority for becoming LAN Level 2 Designated Intermediate System.
.TP
.I l2CircuitID
The LAN ID allocated by the LAN Level 2 Designated Intermediate System.  Where this system is not
aware of the value (because it is not participating in the Level 2 Designated Intermediate System
election), this attribute has the value which would be proposed for this circuit. (i.e. the
concatenation of the local system ID and the one octet local Circuit ID for this circuit.
The value is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(2..9)).
.TP
.I l2DesignatedIntermediateSystem
The ID of the LAN Level 2 Designated Intermediate System on this circuit.  If, for any reason this
system is not partaking in the relevant Designated Intermediate System election process, then the
value returned is the zero length OCTET STRING.
The value is an OCTET STRING(SIZE(0..8)).
.TP
.I lanL2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChanges
Number of LAN L2 Designated Intermediate System Change events generated.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that the CLNS driver does not perform ES-IS, IS-IS or IDRP routing.  It
only matches CLNS User Stream from the upper multiplex to provider Streams on
the lower multiplex.  An external program must open ES-IS, IS-IS or IDRP
Streams and establish routing within the CLNS driver using routing Stream
input-output control commands.
.PP
Note that wehn the CLNS CM opens a CONS Stream and binds or connects it using
the
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7) or " N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive, that this may invoke a connection manager for the provider Stream
to open other Streams for use by the provider.  For example, binding or
connecting an X.25
.BR plp (4)
Stream may result in the formation of a
.BR tcp (4)
connection using the
.BR xot (4)
protocol to provide the VS required for the provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
CLNS can be implemented over LLC1 or over X.25 LAPB.  For Ethernet, LLC1 is
used (SNAP header) for sending CLNS datagrams directory over Ethernet or IEEE
802 LANs.  For X.25 LAPB, an X.25 SVC can be set up and used for transporting
CLNS encapsulated in X.25 Layer 3 messages.  An ES-IS, RFC 995
.[
rfc995
.]
and IS-IS, RFC 1142
.[
rfc1142
.]
routing mechanism is required.  For LLC the SNAP address is the MAC address
and the ES-IS or IS-IS protocol can be encapsulated and broadcast.  For
X.25 LAPB either the ES-IS or IS-IS protocol can be encapsulated and sent to
the adjacent node.
.PP
A mechanism is required for an ES-IS daemon and an IS-IS daemon and network
configuration to configure subnetworks and point-to-point connections under
the domain of the ES-IS and IS-IS daemon.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/iso_is
a list of first hop ISO Intermediate Systems.
.TP
.B /etc/iso_es
a list of first hop ISO End Systems.
.TP
.RB < sys/clns.h >
The connection manager header file containing the definition of the
.B clns_mgmt
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
Modules most often used with the CLNS driver by the CLNS CM are as follows:
.TP \w'\(lq\fIiso-udp\fR\(rq\(em'u
.RI \(lq iso-ip \(rq
This is the
.BR iso-ip (4)
module that transforms a
.BR rawip (4)
Stream into a CLNS provider Stream.
.TP
.RI \(lq iso-udp \(rq
This is the
.BR iso-udp (4)
module that transforms a
.BR udp (4)
Stream into a CLNS provider Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/clns
This is a clone device that provide user CLNS Streams.  Each open of this
device provides a new CLNS User Stream that begins life in the unbound state.
.TP
.B /dev/clns_cm
This is a clone device that provides the CLNS CM Stream.  Each open of this
device provides a new CM Stream.  Multiple CM Streams can be opened.  The CLNS
driver will attempt to fullfill a request from each CM Stream in the order in
which they were opened until one that satisfies a reqeust is found or the
Streams have been exhausted.
.TP
.B /dev/clnp
This is a clone device that provides a user CLNS Stream (with a TLI interface).
Each open of this device provides a new CLNS User Stream that begins life in
the unbound state.
This device may be implemented as a
.B /dev/clns
Stream that has a NPI to TPI coversion module,
.RI \(lq clnp \(rq,
autopushed over it; see
.BR autopush (8).
The conversion module provides a TPI interface suitable for
use by the
.BR XTI (3)
library, but provides direct access to the network protocol instead of
providing a transport protocol.
This device is compatible with the
.I SunLink OSI
device of the same name.
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/dl_llc
.\"LLC data link streams for linking under the ISO routing multiplexer.
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/dl_x25
.\"LAPB data link streams for linking under the ISO routing multiplexer.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Because the CLNS driver is not implemented, it has no bugs.  Or, all the bugs
were in the design.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
These modules and drivers are new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
