'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cmot.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-25 08:38:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cmot.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:44:02  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:52:18  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:13  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CMOT 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cmot
\- CMISE over TCP
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
.IB cmip_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/cmot\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CMOT
is an implementation of CMIP over TCP as described in
.IR "ISO Management over IP (CMOT)" ,
RFC 1095,
.[
rfc1095
.]
superseded by
RFC 1189,
.[
rfc1189
.]
with assigned IANA port number 163 (cmip-man).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B CMOT
is used for communicating with a CMIP agent or client over a TCP/IP network.
On the client side, a
.B /dev/cmot
device is opened and connected to the CMIP server using the presentation
address as described in RFC 1069.
.[
rfc1069
.]
Then operations and components are exchanged using the XTI-mOSI interface.
.PP
On the server side, the
.B /dev/cmot
device is opened and listens on the presentation service access point as
described in RFC 1069.
.[
rfc1069
.]
When a call indication comes in, the CMIP server opens another
.B /dev/cmot
Stream and accepts the connection using the XTI-mOSI interface and begins
servicing requests.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The interface presented is the Transport Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
with the minimal OSI extensions described in XNS 5.2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Addresses are formatted as presentation addresses as described in RFC 986
.[
rfc986
.]
and superseded by RFC 1069.
.[
rfc1069
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OIDS
.PP
The following values for Application Context Name are registered for CMOT and
CMIP:
.PP
This OBJECT IDENTIFIER value is for use with legacy or backward compatible CMOT
.[
rfc1095
.]
operation.
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex1 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) cmot1095(1)}
.PP
These OBJECT IDENTIFIER values are for use with CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
operation:
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex2 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-event-association(2)}
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex3 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-event-monitor-association(3)}
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex4 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-monitor-control-association(4)}
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex5 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-full-association(5)}
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex6 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) agent-event-association(6)}
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Quality of Service paramters are as described in RFC 986
.[
rfc986
.]
and superseded by RFC 1069.
.[
rfc1069
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
The primitives of the connection-oriented transport service provider.
.HP
\fBT_BIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PD 0
.HP
\fBT_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_INFO_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_INFO_ACK\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CAPABILITY_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CAPABILITY_ACK\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CONN_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CONN_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CONN_RES\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_CONN_CON\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_OPTDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_OPTDATA_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_DATA_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_DATA_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_EXDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_EXDATA_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_DISCON_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_DISCON_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_ORDREL_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_ORDREL_IND\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_OK_ACK\fR(7)
.HP
\fBT_ERROR_ACK\fR(7)
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
None of this has been implemented yet.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B CMOT
requires the services of the LPP (Lightweight Presentation Protocol),
RFC 1085,
.[
rfc1085
.]
.BR lpp (4),
which can be implemented as a
.I STREAMS
pushable module that is pushed over a TCP (tpi) Stream to form a TPI-mOSI
Stream.
.PP
.B CMOT
can be implemented, also, as a
.I STREAMS
pushable module that is then pushed over the LPP (tpi-mosi) Stream, or it can be
implemented as a user-space library that simply uses the LPP (tpi-mosi)
Stream.
Note that CMISE
.[
x710
.]
.[
x711
.]
uses ACSE and could easily be represented using the TPI-mOSI
in the same fashion as is done for SS7 TCAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Obviously there are some GDMO files somewhere.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B cmot
the CMOT pushable module.
.TP
.B lpp
the LPP pushable module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/cmot
the CMOT device, which is an
.BR lpp (4)
device with the CMOT module autopushed.
.TP
.B /dev/lpp
the
.BR lpp (4)
deivce which is a TCP device with the LPP module autopushed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-tp4 (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
None of this is implemented yet, so it cannot have any bugs yet.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Too many to mention just now.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The modules and drivers listed here are new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
