'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: iso-lan.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2007/12/15 20:20:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/12/15 20:20:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: iso-lan.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/12/15 20:20:28  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/12 20:25:15  brian
.\" - manual page fixups for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:44:02  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:52:18  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:13  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-ignore TXYZ
search-truncate 12
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISO-LAN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B iso-lan, xol
\- X.25 over LANs
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.HP
.IB xol_stream " = open(" /dev/xol ", O_RDWR);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR XOL ,
X.25 over LANs, is a implementation of X.25 PLP
.[
x25
.]
providing the Connection-Oriented Network Service (CONS)
.[
ISO/IEC 8878
.]
over IEEE 802
.[
ISO/IEC 8802-2
.]
Local Area Networks (LANs) using Logical Link Control Type 2 (LLC2).
.[
ISO/IEC 8881
.]
.PP
Note that, for the purpose of
.BR XOL ,
the
.I EtherType
.B 0x0801
has been assigned to X.75 Internet;
.[
x75
.]
.BR 0x0805 ,
to X.25 Level 3.
.[
x25
.]
The corresponding Local Service Access Point addresses,
.B 0x01
has been assigned to X.75 Internet;
.BR 0x05 ,
to X.25 Level 3.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This driver is not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The interface presented by the driver at the upper multiplex is the
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
The
.B XOL
driver can link Streams providing the same interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
The address format is a MAC address.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Quality of service options are the same as described in the Data Link Provide
Interface (DLPI) specification.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
Primitives at both the upper and lower multiplex are the DL_ primitives of the
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B XOL
has no input-output controls of its own.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
X.25 over LANs can be accomplished by providing an LLC DLPI provider that
forms LLC2 SVCs across a 8802
.[
ISO/IEC 8802
.]
based local area network.
.PP
Stations on the LAN can advertise their presence with broadcast using ES-IS, RFC 995,
.[
rfc995
.]
and IS-IS, RFC 1142,
.[
rfc1142
.]
or by static configuration.
.PP
One of the problems with implementing
ISO-LAN is finding a copy of this ISO/IEC 8881
.[
ISO/IEC 8881
.]
specification that seems to have never been release by ITU-T nor IETF.
.PP
For some of the issues of implementing ES-IS, RFC 995,
.[
rfc995
.]
and IS-IS, RFC 1142,
.[
rfc1142
.]
on Local Area Networks (LANs), see the disscussion of IS-IS and IDRP in RFC
1237
.[
rfc1237
.]
and later RFC 1629.
.[
rfc1629
.]
The later, in particular, discusses the used of a pseudo-node represented by a
designated router on a LAN.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-tp4 (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented, so all bugs are in the design stage.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

