'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: iso-ip.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 00:01:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: iso-ip.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 00:01:56  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:44:02  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:52:18  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:12  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISO-IP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ISO-IP, ISO-UDP
\- ISO CLNS over IP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ISO-IP
is an implementation of an ISO CLNP
.[
ISO/IEC 8473-1 : 1993
.]
Subnetwork Convergence Function Protocol directly over the services of IP
.[
rfc793
.]
or between networks using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP),
.[
rfc768
.]
as defined for experimental use in RFC 1070.
.[
rfc1070
.]
.PP
.B ISO-IP
provides for simple and straightforward encapsulation of CLNS NPDUs in IP
packets or UDP datagrams.
.PP
For providing the ISO CLNS using IP, the IP protocol number
.B 80
has been assigned;
.[
rfc1070
.]
using UDP, the UDP well-known port number
.B 147
has been assigned.
.[
rfc1070
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
For a Connectionless-mode Network Service Provider
.[
x213
.]
using IP and protocol number
.B 80
providing the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.BR npi (7),
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
the
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver
.B /dev/iso-ip
can be opened.
.PP
For a Connectionless-mode Network Service Provider
.[
x213
.]
using UDP and port number
.B 147
providing the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.BR npi (7),
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
the
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver
.B /dev/iso-udp
can be opened.
.PP
Either Stream can be used directly, or bound and linked underneath the
.BR tp4 (4)
driver to provide Connectionless-mode Network Services for Transport Protocol
Class 4 operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Both forms of the Network Service Provider provide the
.IR STREAMS -based
Service Interface specified in the Network Provider Interface.
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Address format is as described in RFC 986
.[
rfc986
.]
and superseded by RFC 1069.
.[
rfc1069
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
Quality of service parameters are as described in RFC 1070.
.[
rfc1070
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.TP
.BR N_INFO_REQ "(7), " N_INFO_ACK (7)
.TP
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7), " N_BIND_ACK "(7), " N_ERROR_ACK (7)
.TP
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ "(7), " N_OK_ACK "(7), " N_ERROR_ACK (7)
.TP
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ "(7), " N_UNITDATA_IND "(7), " N_UDERROR_IND (7)
.TP
.BR N_UNBIND_REQ "(7), " N_OK_ACK "(7), " N_ERROR_ACK (7)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Both RFCs
.[
rfc1069
.]
.[
rfc1070
.]
are described as
.IR Experimental .
The RFC Editor lists both with status
.IR UNKNOWN .
Neither of these RFCs propose a standard. Use of these protocols in the
DARPA Internet is not recommended.
.PP
Nevertheless, the
.B ISO-IP
version of the protocol provides a good mechanism for transporting CLNS over
LANs; the
.B ISO-UDP
version, transporting CLNS between LANs over an Internetwork using existing IP
bridges, switches and routers.
.PP
.B ISO-IP
and
.B ISO-UDP
have the advantages that they reuse exsiting IP network management and
internetwork routing; i.e, they do not require the use of X.75 packet data
switches, or ES-IS/IS-IS routing protocols.  (Well, ES-IS, RFC 995,
.[
rfc995
.]
is still
required; and
IS-IS, RFC 1142
.[[
rfc1142
.]].)
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B /dev/iso-ip
can be implemented as a pushable
.I STREAMS
module, named
.RI \(lq iso-ip \(rq,
that can be pushed over an
.BR np_ip (4)
NPI Stream or
.BR rawip2 (4)
TPI Stream using
.BR autopush (8).
.PP
.B /dev/iso-udp
can be implemented as a pushable
.I STREAMS
module, named
.RI \(lq iso-udp \(rq,
that can be pushed over an
.BR np_udp (4)
NPI Stream or
.BR udp2 (4)
TPI Stream using
.BR autopush (8).
.PP
Each module implements the the SNAcP intermediate layer as described in
RFC 1070
.[
rfc1070
.]
and presents a standard CONS NPI interface,
.BR npi (7),
to the user.
Additional modules, such as
.BR tp4 (4)
could be pushed over this Stream to provide ISO Transport Class 4.
.[
ISO/IEC 8073
.]
Since the module must provide a Network Provider Interface to the trasnport
layer, it would be expedient to implement the module over the NP-IP or NP-UDP
pseudo-device drivers, as they use the same service interface.
.PP
A file as described in RFC 1070
.[
rfc1070
.]
to identify first hop ES and IS is required to prime the SNAcP file is
required, and an implementation of RFC 995
.[
rfc995
.]
ES-IS and RFC 1142
.[
rfc1142
.]
IS-IS, are probably also necessary.  The iso-ip and iso-udp probably need to
implement a control Stream usable by an ES-IS daemon implementing RFC 995, and
an IS-IS daemon implementing RFC 1142 is probably also required.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/eno_is
a file containing a list of first-hop IP addresses or host names of
Intermediate Systems for use by SNAcP and ES-IS and IS-IS.
.TP
.B /etc/eno_es
a file containing a list of first-hop IP addresses or host names of End
Systems for use by SNAcP and ES-IS and IS-IS.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B iso-ip
a pushable module to be pushed over np-ip.
.TP
.B iso-udp
a pushable module to be pushed over np-udp.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/np_ip
the NP-IP device for accessing IP protocol 80 for IP ISO-grams.
.TP
.B /dev/np_udp
the NP-UDP device for accessing UDP port 147 for UDP ISO-grams.
.TP
.B /dev/es_is
an ES-IS pseudo-device for linking iso-ip and iso-udp Streams for ES-IS node
advertisements.
.TP
.B /dev/is_is
an IS-IS pseudo-device for linking iso-ip and iso-udp Streams for IS-IS node
advertisements.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOL (7),
.BR XOT (7),
.BR ISOT (7),
.BR ITOT (7),
.BR ISO-TP4 (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
None of this is implemented yet.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 1070,
.[
rfc1070
.]
RFC 995,
.[
rfc995
.]
RFC 1142.
.[
rfc1142
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
These modules and drivers are new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
