'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: itot.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-25 08:38:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: itot.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:28  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/12 20:25:15  brian
.\" - manual page fixups for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/10 10:44:02  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:52:18  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:13  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ITOT 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B isot, itot
\- ISO Transport over TCP (ISOT/ITOT)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.IB tcp_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/tcp\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.HP
.BI ioctl( tcp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqisot\(rq );
.sp
.HP
.IB tcp_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/tcp\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.HP
.BI ioctl( tcp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqitot\(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ISOT
is an implementation of ISO Transport over TCP (ISOT) as described in RFC 983,
.[
rfc983
.]
superseded by RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
.B ITOT
is an implementation of ISO Transport over TCP (ITOT) as described in RFC
2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
Note that the former (RFC 1006) names the service
.BR ISOT ;
whereas the latter (RFC 2126) names the service
.BR ITOT .
.PP
Regardless of the naming differences, these RFCs describe the use of IS 8073
.[
ISO/IEC 8073 X.224
.]
ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP/IP (ISOT/ITOT) by using TCP/IP as a
Connection-oriented Network Service Provider instead of ISO CONS.
.[
ISO/IEC 8878 X.223
.]
.PP
They describe adaptation of TCP to an ISO CONS
.[
x223
.]
network service provider through the use of a 4 byte header used to delimit
NPDUs inside of the TCP stream.
.PP
RFC 983
.[
rfc983
.]
and RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
provided for ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP (or UDP under
protest) (ISOT) on port number 102.
(Note: both RFC 1006 and RFC 2126 place TP0 on port 102, and, therefore, RFC
2126 must be backward compatible with RFC 1006.)
RFC 1006
is a standard (STD 35).
.PP
RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
also provides for ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP (or UDP under protest) (ISOT)
on port number 102.  But, in addition to these services provided by RFC
1006/STD 35, RFC 2126 also provides for ISO Transport Class 2 over TCP (or UDP
under protest) (ITOT), based on RFC 1859,
.[
rfc1859
.]
using independent TCP/IP connections to port number 399, and also supports
both IPv4 and IPv6.
(Note: both RFC 1859 and RFC 2126 place TP2 on port 399, and, therefore, RFC
2126 must be backward compatible with RFC 1859.)
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Not yet implemented, but here is a stab at explaining the design:
.PP
The following steps will be taken for use with the TP module:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The user opens a
.BR tcp "(4) or " udp "(4)
Stream.
.IP 2.
The user pushes the
.BR isot "(4) or " itot "(4)
module.  The module, when pushed, determines the nature for the Stream below
it, whether TCP or UDP.
.RS
.PP
For ITOT Class 2 operation with expedited data, the user must open two
.BR tcp "(4) or " udp "(4)
Streams, or one
.BR tcp "(4) and one " udp "(4)
Stream, and link both under the
.BR itot (4)
multiplexer.  The linking is accomplished by opening a Stream on the
.RI \(lq /dev/itot \(rq
device and linking each Stream beneath the device Stream using the
.BR I_LINK (7)
STREAMS input-output control,
.BR streamio (7).
.RE
.IP 3.
The user pushes the
.BR tp0 "(4) or " tp2 "(4)
module.
.IP 4.
The user then treats the Stream as any other TP0 or TP2 Stream, with the
obvious restrictions on NSAP and QOS.
.PP
The following steps will be taken for use with the TP multiplexer:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
A TP connection manager opens a connection management Stream on the TP
multiplexing driver and listens for requests for the establishment of
network connections.
.IP 2.
A TP user opens an upper Stream for ISO Transport Class 0 or ISO Transport
Class 2.  The TP user then attempts to listen on the transport endpoint or
connect the transport endpoint.  If a suitable (determined by address format,
TSAP, and ownership) network connection is not available, it requests a
network connection from the connection manager.  (TP2 performs multiplexing,
so it is possible that many TP2 Streams could be opened and served by the same
network connection.)
.IP 3.
When the connection manager receives the request, it uses the address format,
TSAP and QOS parameters to determine whether an ISOT or ITOT network
connection is requested.
.IP 4.
If an ISOT or ITOT network connection is requested, the connection manager
opens a
.BR tcp "(4) or " udp "(4)
Stream.
.\"to the requested address and connects the Stream to the appropriate
.\"port number (102 for ISOT TP0 and 399 for ITOT TP2).
.IP 5.
The connection manager then pushes the
.BR isot " or " itot
module on the Stream.  This transforms the Stream into an ISO CONS provider
and presents the
.BR npi (7)
service interface at the upper boundary.
.IP 6.
The connection manager then links the ISOT or ITOT Stream under the TP
multiplexing driver and configures the Stream within the TP driver in response
to the network connection request.
.IP 7.
TP then proceeds as normal, unaware that TCP/IP is providing the ISO CONS
service.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The service interface for the ISOT and ITOT modules at the upper boundary is
the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7).
The service interface for the ISOT and ITOT modules at the lower boundary is
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Generic string addresses for ISOT and ITOT are described in RFC 1278.
.[
rfc1278
.]
.PP
OSI NSAP addresses for ISOT and ITOT are described for IPv4 in RFC 1277,
.[
rfc1277
.]
for IPv6 in RFC 1888
.[
rfc1888
.]
superseded by IPv4 and IPv6 in RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
.B ISOT
and
.B ITOT
modules support the ISO CONS
options described in X.213
.[
x213
.]
and X.223.
.[
x223
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
The
ISOT and ITOT modules mediate
.BR npi (7)
primitives from its upper interface (write queue) to 
.BR tpi (7)
primitives at its lower interface (read queue).
This section describes only the upper interface.  For a description of the
lower interface, see
.BR tcp (4)
and
.BR udp (4).
.SS N_BIND_REQ\fR(7), \fPN_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
ISOT and ITOT do not support any input-output controls of their own.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These modules are not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
These modules are not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B isot
the ISOT module is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \(lq isot \(rq.
.TP
.B itot
the ITOT module is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \(lq itot \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
The
.B tcp (4)
device opened onto which ISOT or ITOT is pushed.
.TP
.B /dev/udp
The
.B udp (4)
device opened onto which ISOT or ITOT is pushed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
These modules are not implemented and so cannot have any bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation of ISOT and ITOT is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
ISOT conforms to RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
ITOT confirms to RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ISOT " and " ITOT
are new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
