'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lpp.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-25 08:38:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lpp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-25 08:38:28  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/12 20:25:15  brian
.\" - manual page fixups for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:44:03  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:52:18  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:13  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LPP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lpp
\- Lightweight Presentation Protocol (LPP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.IB lpp_stream " = open(" /dev/tp4 ", O_RDWR);
.HP
.BI ioctl( lpp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqlpp\(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B LPP
is an implementation of the
.IR "Lightweight Presentation Protocol (LPP)" ,
as described in
RFC 1085.
.[
rfc1085
.]
.B LPP
is used primarily by CMOT,
.BR cmot (4),
as described in
RFC 1095
.[
rfc1095
.]
and then
RFC 1189.
.[
rfc1189
.]
.B LPP
provides a mechanism for transporting presentation layer PDUs over TCP or UDP
(with serious cautions about using UDP for such things).
.PP
.B LPP
can be implemented as a
.I STREAMS
pushable module that is pushed over a TCP (tpi) stream.  The resulting Stream
can still present a TPI interface, just a TPI-mOSI interface as described in
XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B LPP
can be pushed over an OSI Transport Stream conforming to the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
to transform it into a Lightweight Presentation Protocol Stream.  Once pushed,
the Stream presents the minimal-OSI interface (mOSI) described in XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The interface presented by the
.B LPP
is the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7).
This interface conforms to the XTI mOSI (minimal-OSI) interface using the
X/Open Transport Interface (XTI),
.[
xti
.]
.BR xti (3),
as described in the XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OBJECT IDENTIFIERS
.PP
The following OBJECT IDENTIFIER value is defined in RFC 1095:
.[
rfc1095
.]
.ad l
.HP
CMOT
.[
rfc1095
.]
backward compatible Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.1
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) cmot1095(1)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex1\(rq
.ad b
.PP
The following OBJECT IDENTIFIER values are defined in RFC 1189:
.[
rfc1189
.]
.ad l
.HP
CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
manager event Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.2
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-event-association(2)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex2\(rq
.HP
CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
manager event monitor Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.3
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-event-monitor-association(3)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex3\(rq
.HP
CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
manager monitor control Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.4
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-monitor-control-association(4)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex4\(rq
.HP
CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
manager full Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.5
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) manager-full-association(5)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex5\(rq
.HP
CMIP
.[
rfc1189
.]
agent event Application Context Name:
.br
1.3.6.1.2.1.9.1.6
.I {iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) mgmt(2) mib(1) oim(9) acn(1) agent-event-association(6)}
.B \(lq\ex2b\ex6\ex1\ex2\ex1\ex9\ex1\ex6\(rq
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Address encoding is according to RFC 1278.
.[
rfc1278
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are as provided in the XTI mOSI interface as described in XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.\".SH PRIMITIVES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B LPP
does not provide any input-output controls of its own.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This module is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
This module is currently incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B LPP
is a pushable
.IR STREAMS (9)
module named
.RI \(lq lpp \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-tp4 (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
As the
.B LPP
module is currently incomplete, bugs are currently being designed.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B LPP
module is compatible with the XTI mOSI specification of XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 1189.
.[
rfc1189
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B LPP
module is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
