'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: oopi.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-25 08:38:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: oopi.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:28  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:28  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:51  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:18  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OOPI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B oopi
\- OSI ASCE/Presentation Interface Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ap_stream " = ap_open(" /dev/oopi ", " 0 );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B OOPI
is an OSI ACSE/Presentation Interface
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
.PP
The driver provides Session,
.[
x225
.]
Presentation,
.[
x226
.]
ACSE
.[
x227
.]
and ROSE
.[
x229
.]
OSI protocol layer services.  For normal
OSI transport providers, the driver provides full OSI Session, Presentation and ASCE services.
Users of the driver may access ACSE/Presentation services using the ACSE/Presentation Library
Interface (APLI),
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.BR apli (3),
or the X/Open ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (XAP),
.[
xap c303
.]
.BR xap (3).
ROSE services may be provided optionally using the ACSE/Presentation ROSE Interface (APRI) or the
X/Open ACSE/Presentation Library Interface for ROSE (XAP-ROSE).
.[
xap-rose
.]
DTP services may be provided optionally using the X/Open ACSE/Presentation Library Interface for DTP
(XAP-TP).
.[
xap-tp
.]
.PP
Additional OSI application services can be provided by the XMHS,
.[
xmhs
.]
XMS,
.[
xms
.]
XDS,
.[
xds c608
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp c306
.]
These library interfaces, based on XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
provide services via the APLI/XAP libraries which utilize almost exclusively the
.B oopi
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The
.B oopi
drivers is configured by the OSI Networking Daemon,
.BR osinetd (8).
The
.BR osinetd (8)
daemon is responsible for initializing and configuring the OSI network layer, transport layer, and
ACSE/Presentation layer.
.PP
Without configuration, the
.B oopi
driver will allow users to open Streams on the driver and attempt to bind the device to a
Presentation Address; however, as there are no transports configured, all attempts to bind to a
presentation address will fail.  Once configured for a number of transports, users will be able to
open and bind Streams on the upper multiplex to Presentation addresses supported by the available
transports.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Although the
.B oopi
driver provides a service primitive interface at the upper boundary to ACSE/Presentation users, this
service primitive interface is OpenSS7 specific and cannot be used directly in a portable way.  To
utilize the driver in a portable way, the APLI
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.BR apli (3),
or XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
.BR xap (3),
library interfaces should be used.
.PP
A daemon,
.BR osinetd (8),
is used to configure the multiplexing driver at system initialization time.
The daemon opens and permanently links wild-carded network address and
transport selector listening Streams for each NSAP type available on the
system.  These permanently linked Streams are bound in a listening mode only,
and may be shared by processes that open an upper multiplex Stream.
.PP
When a bind is attempted on a upper multiplex Stream, the user must provide
the lower multiplex identifier of an unbound, temporarily linked, transport
Stream to use in initiator or responder roles.  In initiator roles, this
Stream will be used for the outbound transport connection.  In responder
roles, this Stream will be used to accept inbound transport connections.
.PP
When a bind is attempted that includes a responder role, the driver will
search for an appropriate permanently linked Stream.  If one is found for the
specified bound local presentation address, the provided temporarily linked
Stream will be bound in a non-listening mode and will only be used to accept
inbound transport connections.  The driver adds the upper multiplex Stream to
internal demultiplexing logic.  When no appropriate permanently linked Stream
is found, an attempt will be made to bind the provided temporarily linked
Stream to the requested presentation address in a listening mode.
.PP
Note that creating a suitable transport Stream to tbe linked under the driver
might also entail a similar process for the transport driver.  See
.BR tp (4).
.PP
To avoid the necessity of temporarily linking an appropriate transport
provider Stream, the
.B oopi
driver can also be implemented as a generic transport provider Stream that
auto-pushes a presentation module.  In this case, the opening and temporarily
linking of the transport Stream becomes a matter of simply opening the
auto-push transport entry.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B oopi
driver provides an ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (APRI) at its upper service interface and a
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
at its lower boundary.  In addition to providing an APLI user interface at the upper service
interface boundary, the
.B oopi
driver also provide a specialized management stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The OpenSS7 implementation of the service interface is OpenSS7 specific.  An resemblance to other
vendor offerings is coincidental.
.PP
OpenSS7 implements the
.B oopi
as a multiplexing STREAMS pseudo-device driver.  Streams opened on the upper multiplex provide a
Presentation Provider Interface.   Streams under the lower multiplex must provide an OSI Transport
Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/oopi
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B oopi
pseudo-device driver is compatible with APLI and XAP and implementations based on APLI and XAP
including
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and other implementations based on AT&T SVR 4.2, with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Some distributions of
.IR UNIX \(rg
have different implementations of drivers, and different device paths, to support the APLI and XAP
libraries.  The
.B oopi
driver is named after the
.IR Solaris \(rg
device of the same purpose.  Nevertheless, the details of the interface between the APLI and XAP
libraries on
.IR Solaris \(rg
and the
.B oopi
device is not mentioned in readily available documentation.  Therefore, any similarity between the
OpenSS7 implementation of a service interface for
.B oopi
and that of
.IR Solaris \(rg
is purely coincidental.
The only portability and compatibility that is achieved as a result is via the APLI and XAP
libraries, whose interfaces are better documented.
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
module is not subject to any specific conformance,
see section,
.RI \(lq COMPATIBILITY \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.b oopi
driver and the service interface between the ACSE/Presentation provider and the ACSE/Presentation
user (in the form of the APLI
.[
apli UNIX international
.]
and
XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
libraries) is not well documented.  At the time of writing, the author did not have access to any
SVR 4.2 derived APLI code nor documentation on the APLI driver.  These capabilities were treated as
an add-on (the ONS add-on package) and not part of the base operating system.  Sun Microsystems did
much of this development in the late 80's and made source licensing available to other UNIX vendors
in 1987.
.PP
While the original APLI specifications where developed by UNIX International in the same manner as
the DLPI, NPI and TPI interfaces, there is currently no public access to the draft document.  All
that is available is Sun Microsystems' and HP's documentation on their APLI library implementations
(which are close enough aligned on some primary documents that it appears that they might closely
reflect the original UNIX documentation).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 \fBoopi\fP(4) driver.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
