'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: otpi.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-05-03 13:23:34 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 13:23:34 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: otpi.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-05-03 13:23:34  brian
.\" - added strx25 sub-package and package updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:56  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/12/15 20:20:28  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH OTPI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B otpi
\- ISO Transport Protocol ISO/IEC 8073 Classes 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
STREAMS,
TPI.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netiso/osi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_osi.h>
.HP
.BI "int " tp_stream " = open(" tp_device ", " oflag );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " tp_xtistr " = t_open(" tp_device ", " oflag );
.HP
.BI "int " tp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_ISO\fP ", " socket_type ", " \fRISOPROTO_TP\fP );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B OTPI
is an OSI Transport Provider Interface
.IR STREAMS (4)
module that appears to the user as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver.
.PP
The driver provides OSI Transport
.[
x214
.]
protocol layer services.  Users of the driver may access Transport services
using the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
or the XTI/TLI library,
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
The
.B otpi
driver is configured by the OSI Networking Daemon,
.BR osinetd (8).
The
.BR osinetd (8)
daemon is responsible for initializing and configuring the OSI link, network,
transport and ACSE/Presentation layers.
.PP
Without configuration, the
.B otpi
driver will allow users to open Streams on the driver and attempt to bind the
device to a Transport Address; however, as there are no networks configured,
attempts to listen on a transport selector will be restricted to private network
listeners only.  Once configured for a number of networks, users will be able to
open and listen on Streams on the upper multiplex to transport selectors
supported by the available networks.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
A daemon,
.BR osinetd (8),
is used to configure the transport layer at system initialization time.  The
daemon opens and binds wildcarded network address listening Streams for each
network type available on the system.  These Streams are bound in a listening
mode only, and may be shared by other processes that push the
.BR tpcots (4)
module.  The daemon holds these Streams open and also uses them for management
purposes.
.PP
When bound for listening, the tpcots module will search for a network provider
Stream that is sharable and suitably bound.  A sharable and suitably bound
network provider Stream is a Stream that is bound as a DEFAULT_LISTENER, for
CONS, or bound to the wildcard NSAP as a DEFAULT_DEST for CLNS.  If an
existing network provider stream exists and is suitably bound, the binding
Stream will be added to the demultiplexing logic for that listening Stream.
.PP
When a bind is attempted on an upper multiplex Stream which includes a CONS
NSAP, the user must provide the lower multiplex identifier of an unbound,
temporarily linked, network Stream to use in initiator or responder roles.  In
initiator roles, this Stream will be used for the outbound network connection.
In responder roles, this Stream will be used to accept inbound network
connections.
.PP
When a bind is attempted that includes a responder role, the driver will search
for an appropriate permanently linked Stream.  If one is found, for the
specified bound local transport address, the provided temporarily linked Stream
will be bound in a non-listening mode and will only be used to accept inbound
network connections.  The driver adds the upper multiplex Stream to internal
demultiplexing logic.  When no appropriate permanently linked Stream is found,
an attempt will be made to bind the provided temporarily linked Stream to the
requested transport address in a listening mode.  This will fail if another user
has already bound to the requested address.
.PP
Note that creating a suitable network Stream to be linked under the driver might
also entail a similar process for the network driver.  See
.BR cons (4)
and
.BR clns (4).
.PP
To avoid the necessity of temporarily linking an appropriate network provider
Stream, the
.B otpi
is implemented as a generic network provider Stream that autopushes a transport
module.  In this case, the opening and temporarily  linking of the network
Stream becomes a matter of simply opening the autopush transport entry.
.\"
.\"
.SH SERVICE INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B otpi
service interface on the upper multiplex is the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
supporting the ISO Transport Service Interface
.[
x214
.]
for the ISO Transport Protocols.
.[
x224
.]
.[
x234
.]
.PP
The
.B opti
service interface on the lower multiplex is the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
supporting the ISO Network Service Inteface.
.[
x213
.]
for the ISO Network Protocols,
.[
x223
.]
.[
x224
.]
but can, in general, be any provider supporting the ISO Network Service Interface.
.[
x213
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
OSI Transport addresses are in an array of octets where the first octet is the
length,
.IR tsaplen ,
of the TSAP, followed by
.I tsaplen
octets of TSAP, followed by an octet that is the length,
.IR nsaplen ,
of the NSAP, followed by
.I nsaplen
octets of NSAP.
.PP
The TSAP is coded according to OSI Transport conventions and is simply the
T-Selector.  The NSAP is coded according to OSI NSAP conventions.
.PP
When the
.I tsaplen
is encoded as zero (0), a null T-Selector is used.  When the
.I nsaplen
is ecoded as zero (0), the underlying NS-Provider is to assign an NSAP.
.PP
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
specifies that the NSAP address passed to
.BR t_bind (3)
and the NSAP address passed to
.BR t_connect (3)
is the X.233 NSAP address (in network byte order).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implements the full set of OSI XTI/TPI options described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.PP
When OSI QoS options are used, they are used to negotiate QoS requirements with
the remote OSI Transport provider and user in the fashion of normal OSI
Transport; when OSI management options are used, they are used to negotiate
functional units and protocol options in the normal manner described for OSI
Transport; both as described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.B otpi
does not implement any specialized primitives and implements the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
at its upper service interfaces and the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
Revision 2.0.0
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
at its lower service interface.  At the upper service interface, the TPI is
implemented as required for OSI Transport as described in
.BR tpi_osi (7).
At the lower interface, the NPI is implemented as required for CONS and CLNS
OSI Network as described in
.BR npi_osi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B otpi
driver does not yet support any input-output controls of its own.  The standard
STREAMS input-output controls,
.BR I_LINK "(7), " I_PLINK "(7), " I_UNLINK "(7), " I_PUNLINK (7)
are used by management programs to provision and supply TCP/IP Streams to the
lower multiplex of the driver.  This is accomplished using a control Stream, or
any Stream on the upper multiplex provided that the user has sufficient
privilege.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that transport protocol classes 0, 1, 2 and 3 are only available over a
connection oriented network service provider, such as
.BR cons (4).
Transport protocol class 4 is available over both connection oriented and
connectionless underlying networks,
.BR cons (4)
and
.BR clns (4),
and is used over the connectionless network protocol,
.BR clnp (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B otpi
provides an auxilliary
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
interface at both the upper multiplex and the lower multiplex service
interfaces.  The purpose of these messages is functionally the same as the
.BR M_PROTO "(9) and " M_PCPROTO (9)
messages, and they contain the same TPI service primitives.  The only
difference is that, because the Stream head cannot directly generate a
.BR M_CTL "(9) or " M_PCCTL (9)
message, the receiver of the message is assured that the contents have been
supplied or verified by the sending module.  This permits many checks that are
required for user-supplied information (for security purposes) can be skipped
for these inter-module messages.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MODULES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/otpi
The OSI Transport Protocol Interface device.  This device opens a network
provider Stream and pushes the tpcots module.
.TP
.B /dev/otpi
This device represents the traditional
.IR SunLink \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
OSI Transport device driver.  This device may be directly opened using
.BR t_open (3).
.TP
.B /dev/streams/otpi
When the shadow special file system,
.BR specfs (5),
is mounted, this is the point within the filesystem at which the
.B otpi
device appears.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/otpi
When the shadow special file system,
.BR specfs (5),
is mounted, this is the clone device for opening clone device Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR M_PCCTL (9),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_osi (7),
.BR OSI (4),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_osi (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_osi (3),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B otpi
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B otpi
is compatible with
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR SunLink \(rg
does not document options associated with the
.B otpi
OSI Transport provider.
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
.B otpi
supports the OSI Transport options to control both ISO Transport QoS and
management options associated with OSI Transport described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.IP \(em
Birnary compatibility is not attempted: only source compatibility.  Any binary
compatibility contained in the package is a bug and is scheduled to be removed
on the next release.  If you want binary compatibility, go buy the
\fISolaris Solstice\fP\(rn product!
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
X.214,
.[
x214
.]
X.224,
.[
x224
.]
TPI,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
NPI.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Historically, RFC 1006 and other non-OSI transport drivers were provided
separate from OSI transport drivers.  This was true for both the USL ONP and BSD
ISODE approaches.  However, that separation made it difficult to provide
initiators and responders that provided for both traditional OSI CONS and CLNS
networks as well as RFC 1006 networks.  Therefore, both the USL ONP and BSD
ISODE approaches integrated all networks into the same transport provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
OSI Stack and the
.B otpi
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
