'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: plp.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 00:01:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: plp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-29 00:01:56  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/12/15 20:20:28  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/12 20:25:15  brian
.\" - manual page fixups for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/10 10:44:03  brian
.\" - updates for release, lots of additions and workup
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/03 13:24:21  brian
.\" - file additions and removals for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/04/11 18:22:13  brian
.\" - added manual pages and references
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-ignore T
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PLP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B plp, x25-plp, x25_plp
\- X.25 Packet Layer Protocol
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_osi.h>
.HP
.IB plp_stream " = open( /dev/plp ", O_RDWR);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B PLP
multiplexing pseudo-device driver is an implementation of X.25 PLP.
.[
x25
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Streams providing LAPB, MLP, LLC2 or XOT/XOS data links conforming to the Data
Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
can be linked beneath this multiplexing driver to provide data link service to
the driver.
.PP
Streams opened on the upper multiplex, present the Network Provider Interface
(NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
OSI conforming service interface.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
 Network +----------------------------------+                   
 Layer   |                CONS              |                   
         +--+--------+--------------+-------+                   
            |        |              |                           
            |        |   +----------+-------------------------+ 
            |        |   |              X.25 PLP              | 
            |        |   +----+-------+--------+---------+----+ 
            |        |        |       |        |         |      
 -----------|--------|--------|-------|--------|---------|------
 Datalink   |        |        |       |        |         |      
 Layer  +---+--+ +---+--+ +---+--+ +--+--+ +---+--+ +----+----+ 
        | ISOT | | LLC1 | | LLC2 | | XOT | | LAPB | |   MLP   | 
        +---+--+ +---+--+ +--+---+ +--+--+ +---+--+ +-+-----+-+ 
            |        |       |        |        |    +-+-+ +-+-+ 
            +--------|-------|--------+        |    |SLP| |SLP| 
                     |       |        |        |    +-+-+ +-+-+ 
 --------------------|-------|--------|--------|------|-----|---
 Communications      |       |        |        |      |     |   
 Device          +---+-------+---+ +--+--+  +--+------+-----+-+ 
 Layer           |      802      | | TCP |  |       WAN       | 
                 +---------------+ +-----+  +-----------------+ 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
A user of the PLP network service opens the pseudo-device driver by opening
the clone device
.BR /dev/plp .
This yeilds a PLP Stream.
When the user bind and connects the Stream from a local NSAP to a remote NSAP,
the user Stream is associated with one or more data links at the lower
multiplex.  The user Stream is associated with data link streams in the
following fashion:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the PLP Stream is connected, using the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive, the driver usese the NSAPs to determine whether an existing data
link exists, and if it does, the Stream is associated with that data link.  if
a suitable data link does not exist, a request is issued to a connection
manager daemon listening on the connection management Stream.
.IP \(bu
The connection manager satisfies requests by examining the NSAP contained in
the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.  The NSAP can be one of several forms:
.RS
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
An X.121 address.
.sp
In this case the connection manager opens an X.25 LAPB stream on the X.25 LAPB
device, binds and connects the Stream appropriately according to the
information in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive and then links the connected Stream under the PLP multiplexing
driver.  It responds to the request indicating the multiplexer index of the
linked Stream.
.sp
If binding or connecting the X.25 LAPB Stream fails, the connection manager response on the
connection management Stream with a negative acknowledgement that the X.25 PLP
driver tanslates into an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the PLP user.
.IP 2.
An LSAP address.
.sp
In this case the connection manager opens an X.25 LLC2 stream on the X.25 LLC2
device, binds and connects the Stream appropriately according to the
information in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive and then links the connected Stream under the PLP multiplexing
driver.  It responds to the request indicating the multiplexer index of the
linked Stream.
.sp
If binding or connecting the X.25 LLC2 Stream fails, the connection manager response on the
connection management Stream with a negative acknowledgement that the X.25 PLP
driver tanslates into an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the PLP user.
.RE
.IP \(bu
Data link Streams may also be linked under the PLP multiplexing driver at
configuration time using static configuration information obtained from
configuration files.
.IP \(bu
Data link Streams may also be linked under the PLP multiplexing driver using
route discovery protocols.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The interface for the X.25 PLP is the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.RB npi (7),
the CONS subset.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
The address format is a socket address of structure type
.BR sockaddr_x25 .
Allocation of addresses in the Internet is described in RFC 982,
.[
rfc982
.]
RFC 1237,
.[
rfc1237
.]
RFC 1629.
.[
rfc1629
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Quality of service options provided by the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
for OSI conforming implementations
.BR npi_osi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
Primitives used are the primitives of the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
for OSI conforming implementations
.BR npi_osi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.BR PLP
does not provide any input-output controls of its own.  The
.BR I_LINK "(7), " I_PLINK "(7), " I_UNLINK "(7) and " I_PUNLINK (7)
input-output commands  can be used to link Streams beneath this multiplexing
driver that conform to the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
providing either X.25 LAPB,
.[
x25
.]
.BR lapb (4),
or ISO 8802 LLC2,
.[
iso/iec 8802
.]
.BR xol (4),
data links.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The X.25 PLP would typically be implemented according to X.25 standards over
the LAPB data link protocol described in X.25,
.[
x25
.]
and implementing the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
The X.25 PLP can be used to provide the ISO CONS as described in X.223.
.[
x223
.]
.PP
X.25 PLP is not very useful on its own except for WAN encapsulation over X.25
links using RFC 877,
.[
rfc877
.]
superseded by RFC 1356.
.[
rfc1356
.]
.PP
Alternatives include:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
X.25 PLP adapted for LANs, as described in ISO/IEC 8881,
.[
iso/iec 8881
.]
that implements the
.BR dlpi (7)
using LLC2 instead of LAPB.
This is described in more detail under
.BR iso-lan (4).
.IP \(em
X.25 PLP implemented directly over TCP ala RFC 1613,
.[
rfc1613
.]
termed
.BR xot (4).
Under this scheme, TCP replaces the lower layers of X.25 PLP.
.[
rfc1613
.]
This mechanism appears most useful for tunnelling X.25 SVC and PVCs over a
TCP/IP internetwork.
.IP ""
Perhaps a better way of tunneling X.25 SVCs and PVCs over a TCP/IP internetwork
nowadays would be to implement X.25 over SCTP (Stream Control Transmission
Protocol) as described here under
.BR xos (4).
.IP \(em
Another way of providing X.25 CONS
.[
x223
.]
for use by TP is utilizing TCP/IP as an
X.25 CONS replacement as described in RFC 983,
.[
rfc983
.]
RFC 1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
This mechanism is described as providing the ISO TP0 and TP2 transport classes.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
This driver is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MODULES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.TP
.BR /dev/plp
The X.25 Packet Layer Protocol device.  This is a
.BR clone (4)
device that opens user Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-tp4 (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
As this driver is incomplete, the bug are being developed.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
X.25,
.[
x25
.]
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B PLP
device is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
