'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xos.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/10 10:12:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:12:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xos.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/10 10:12:38  brian
.\" - added losts of striso files
.\"
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XOS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xos
\- X.25 over SCTP (XOS)
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XOS
is an implementation of X.25 PLP over SCTP (XOS) simular to that which is
described in RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
for TCP.
RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
describes use of ISO 8881
.[
ISO/IEC 8881:1989
.]
X.25
.[
x25
.]
Packet Layer Protocol over TCP (XOT) using independent TCP connections
to Registered TCP Port Number 1998 as VCs.
.PP
A similar approach using SCTP (XOS) on the same IANA registered port number
1998, could prove more viable.  SCTP supports multiple independent Streams each
of which can be paired to support multiple VCs on the same SCTP association.
This would obviate the need as in TCP to esablish a new transport connection
for each VC.  X.25 normally only supports about 4096 VCs.  An SCTP association
can allocate up to 16384 independent streams and could easily allocate a stream
per VC in each direction.  This would permit forming an SCTP association per
interface pairing instead an alleviate the need to generate pseudo-interface
identifiers for each TCP connection.  One local and remote interface identifier
could be assigned to the SCTP association and and VCs assigned to streams
according to their natural numbering.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Not yet implemented, but here is a stab at explaining the design:
.PP
The following steps would be taken:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
A user application or configuration daemon would open
.BR sctp (4)
Streams and connect them to hosts that provide X.25 interface connectivity.
.IP 2.
One
.BR sctp (4)
Stream would be opened for each remote interface.
Connections would be made to IANA regsitered port number 1998.
.IP 3.
The configuration program pushes the
.B XOS
pushable
.I STREAMS
module on the
.BR sctp (4)
Stream and configures it with a remote interface identifier using either
.BR dlpi (7)
primitives or an input-output control.
This results in the negotiation of the remote interface identifier with the
remote host using SCTP stream 0.
.IP 4.
The resulting
.BR dlpi (7)
Stream can be linked beneath an X.25 PLP,
.BR plp (4),
multiplexing driver to provide data link services to the X.25 PLP.
.IP 5.
The
.BR plp (4)
routing tables can be updated to provide access to X.25 PLP upper multiplex
Streams to the DLPI driver beneath using configurtion commands normal to the
X.25 PLP multiplexing driver.
.IP 6.
X.25 routing functions can be performed using the DLPI Stream from within the
X.25 PLP driver without the user having to further open an NPI Stream.
.IP 7.
When (and if) it comes time to establish an X.25 SVC, the user opens an X.25
PLP Stream (presenting the
.BR npi (7)
interface) and binds and listens, or connects, the X.25 PLP or X.75 NPI Stream
as normal.
.IP 8.
The
.B XOS
module intercepts information from the X.25 PLP packets and performs the
actions necessary to map packets to SCTP Streams and adjust packet headers as
required to perform the convergence functions in a manner similar to that
described for TCP in RFC 1613.
.[
rfc1613
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The service interface to the
.B xos
module is the
.I Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
Type II interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
The
.B xos
address format is a DLSAP.  In the case of
.BR xos ,
the DLSAP is an interface identifier or an IP address and port number.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
All OSI DLPI options apply but perhaps not all can be supported by SCTP.  For
SCTP it would be easier to translate QOS parameters into SCTP protocol
parameters than it is for TCP.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.BR dlpi (7)
connection-oriented primitives.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.BR dlpi (7)
defined input-output controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This module is yet to be implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Implementing
.B xos
should be less cumbersome than
.BR xot (4).
.B XOS
could be implemented as multiplexing driver under
.IR STREAMS .
An
.BR sctp (4)
Stream would be opened and then linked under the
.B XOS
driver, either permanently or temporarily.
Once linked, the application would be able to open the
.B /dev/xos
driver, presenting an
.BR npi (7)
interface, and bind the Stream to an interface identifier or IP address and a
virtual call or other NSAP.
.PP
Another approach would be to link the
.BR sctp (4)
Stream under a multiplexing driver presenting a
.BR dlpi (7)
interface on the upper side of the multiplex.  Then
.BR dlpi (7)
streams could be opened and connected in much the same fashion as an X.25 LAPB
DLPI Stream would.  These Streams could then be linked under a standard X.25
PLP multiplex presenting an
.BR npi (7)
interface at its upper boundary (for X.75 Multi-Link Protocol), or could have
an X.25 PLP module pushed over it (for X.25 Single-Link Protocol).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ "`uname -r`" /striso/streams_xos.ko
the kernel module for the
.B xos
.I STREAMS
module and multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.BR xosmod
is a
.I STREAMS
pushable module name
.IR \(lq xosmod \(rq
that can be pushed over an
.BR sctp (4)
Stream to form an ISO CODLS for use with X.25 SLP or X.75 MLP.
.TP
.BR plpmod (4)
is a
.I STREAMS
pushable module named
.RI \(lq plpmod \(rq.
This module can be pushed over an
.B XOS
Stream presenting the
.BR dlpi (7)
type 2 for X.25 SLP.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.TP
.B /dev/sctp
The SCTP device over which
.B xos
is pushed.
.TP
.B /dev/xos
is a multiplexing driver that can have
.BR sctp (4)
Streams linked beneath it to provide an ISO CODLS
.BR dlpi (7)
interface that can then be used with X.25 PLP.
.TP
.B /dev/plp
is a multiplexing driver that can have
.BR dlpi (7)
streams providing ISO CODLS beneath it to provide either X.25 SLP or X.75 MLP.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOL (7),
.BR ISOT (7),
.BR ITOT (7),
.BR ISO-IP (7),
.BR ISO-TP4 (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This manpage and the implementation is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.  I know of no other
.I STREAMS
or
.I Sockets
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 1613,
.[
rfc1613
.]
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
X.25,
.[
x25
.]
X.25 PLP.
.[
ISO/IEC 8881:1989
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B xot
module is new to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
