'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sock2path.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/08/29 11:41:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/29 11:41:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sock2path.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/29 11:41:03  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsock.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsock.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SOCK2PATH 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sock2path
\- file that maps sockets to transport providers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/sock2path
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The socket mapping file,
.BR /etc/sock2path ,
is a system file that contains the mappings between the
.BR socket (3)
call parameters and the transport provider driver.  Its format is described on
the
.BR soconfig (8)
manual page.
.PP
The
.BR init (8)
utility uses the
.BR soconfig (8)
utility with the
.B /etc/sock2path
file during the booting sequence.
.PP
With
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 2.6 ,
the
.BR sockmod (4)
module and much of the
.BR libsocket (3)
library were removed and many of the socket compatibility library operations
moved into the kernel.  The old
.BR libsocket (3)
library used the
.B /dev/netconfig
file, described under
.BR netconfig (5),
directly.  Having moved the mapping function directly into the kernel, another
approach was necessary to populate the mapping within the kernel.  The
.BR soconfig (8)
utility and the associated
.B /etc/sock2path
file were formed to populate the kernel mapping file at boot time and to
perform modifications to the kernel mapping as required while the system is
running.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also uses this approach for populating kernel-level mapping files for use with
the
.BR socksys (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file format consists of lines with 4 fields as follows:
.sp
.RS
.RI < family "> <" type "> <" protocol "> <" path >
.RE
.PP
All fields are mandatory.  Comments begin with an octothorpe (#) and continue
to the end of a line.  Empty lines, or lines consisting of whitespace or
containing only a comment are ignored.
.PP
The fields, separated by any arbitrary amount of leading or intervening
whitespace are interpreted follows:
.TP \w'protocol\(em'u
.I family
Protocol family, as listed in
.RB < sys/socket.h >,
expressed as a decimal number.
.TP
.I type
Socket type, as listed in
.RB < sys/socket.h >,
expressed as decimal number.
.TP
.I protocol
Protocol within a protocol family, as listed in the protocol specific file
(e.g.
.RB < netinet/in.h >
for
.BR PF_INET ),
expressed as a decimal number.
.TP
.I path
The filesystem path to a device file that will be opened as the underlying
transport provider (e.g.
.RB \*(lq /dev/tcp \*(rq).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Example 1: A Sample
.B sock2path
File
.PP
The following is a sample
.B sock2path
file:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
# Family   Type  Protocol    Path
      2       2       0      /dev/tcp
      2       2       6      /dev/tcp

      26      2       0      /dev/tcp6
      26      2       6      /dev/tcp6

      2       1       0      /dev/udp
      2       1       17     /dev/udp

      26      1       0      /dev/udp6
      26      1       17     /dev/udp6

      1       2       0      /dev/ticotsord
      1       6       0      /dev/ticotsord
      1       1       0      /dev/ticlts

      2       4       0      /dev/rawip
      26      4       0      /dev/rawip

      24      4       0      /dev/rts

      27      4       2      /dev/keysock
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/sock2path
contains the
.B soconfig
configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR soconfig (8),
.BR socket (3),
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B /etc/sock2path
file is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses the same format of file as described here with one extension: it is
possible to use symbolic names (e.g.
.BR AF_INET )
for the
.IR family ", " type " and " protocol
fields.  However, not all symbolic names are populated in the
.BR soconfig (8)
tool.  See
.BR soconfig (8)
for more information.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not support symbolic names (e.g.
.BR AF_INET )
for the fields.
.IP \(em
The mechanism that actually uses the kernel-populated socket mapping is
different under
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.IP \(em
At boot time, the kernel mapping is populated using the
.BR soconfig (8)
utility and the
.B /etc/sock2path
file.  This is performed with the
.B @PACKAGE@
or
.B @PACKAGE@.sh
init script and not directly by the
.BR init (8)
process.
.IP \(em
The
.B /etc/sock2path
file is only compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purposes of populating the kernel mapping for use by
.B libsocket.so
in the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
package.  Any other use of the
.B /etc/sock2path
file is unsupported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B /etc/sock2path
file first appeared in
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 2.6 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
