'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strsock.5.man,v 1.1.2.1 2006/10/10 10:47:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:47:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strsock.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2006/10/10 10:47:10  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/18 01:25:57  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/29 11:41:03  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsock.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsock.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRSOCK 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package contains header files and a number of modules and drivers and the
associated documentation originally contained in the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
release, but not contained in the
.B Linux STREAMS (LiS)
releases.
.PP
The package uses the following standard
.I Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)
.[
x200
.]
conforming header files from the
.B strxnet
package:
.IP \- \w'\-\(em'u
.RB < sys/tiuser.h >
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7)
.PD 0
.IP \-
.RB < sys/tihdr.h >
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7)
.PD
.PP
The package currently provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers:
.IP \- \w'\-\(em'u
.B streams_sockmod.ko
.I module
.PD 0
.IP \-
.B streams_socksys.ko
.B /dev/socksys
.PD
.TP
.BR sockmod (4)
The
.BR sockmod (4)
module, when pushed on a TPI Stream, attempts to provide as wide a range of
support for traditional
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
socket module and socket system support.
.IP ""
It does so by recognizing input-output controls from three sets:
.BR sockmod (4)
input-output controls;
.BR socksys (4)
input-output controls, and even
.BR socke t(7)
system calls.
.IP ""
This module is incomplete.
.TP
.BR socksys (4)
The
.BR socksys (4)
driver, when opened, provides a TPI Stream that attempts to provide as
wide a range of support for traditional
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
socket module and socket system support.
.IP ""
It does so by recognizing input-output controls from three sets:
.BR sockmod (4)
input-output controls;
.BR socksys (4)
input-output controls, and even
.BR socket (7)
system calls.
.IP ""
This module is incomplete.
.PP
The package currently provides the following "STREAMS" libraries:
.IP \- \w'\-\(em'u
.B libsocket.so
.B libsocket.a
.PD 0
.IP \-
.B libsocklib.so
.B libsocklib.a
.PD
.PP
The
.BR libsocket (3)
library implements the following library calls:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lll.
\fBsocket\fP(3)
.TE
.RE
.PP
The
.BR libsocket (3)
library only needs to implement the single library call because file
descriptors that are returned from the
.BR socket (3)
call have been transformed into real sockets (from the viewpoint of the system
call interface) and standard `glibc' calls for the remaining functions are
used.
.PP
The
.BR libsocklib (3)
library implements the following library calls:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lll.
\fBaccept\fP(3)	\fBlisten\fP(3)	\fBsendto\fP(3)
\fBbind\fP(3)	\fBrecv\fP(3)	\fBsetsockopt\fP(3)
\fBconnect\fP(3)	\fBrecvfrom\fP(3)	\fBshutdown\fP(3)
\fBgetpeername\fP(3)	\fBrecvmsg\fP(3)	\fBsocket\fP(3)
\fBgetsockname\fP(3)	\fBsend\fP(3)	\fBsocketpair\fP(3)
\fBgetsockopt\fP(3)	\fBsendmsg\fP(3)
.TE
.RE
.PP
The
.BR libsocklib (3)
library is the older compatiblity library approach to providing sockets for
.I STREAMS
and implements the system calls as library calls for
.I STREAMS
devices, while calling the `glibc' versions for true sockets.
.PP
The
.BR libsockpath (3)
library implements the following library calls:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lll.
\fB\)setsockpath\fP(3)
\fB\)getsockpath\fP(3)
\fB\)endsockpath\fP(3)
\fB\)getsockpathent\fP(3)
\fB\)freesockpathent\fP(3)
.TE
.RE
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
modules and drivers.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.\"
.SS "Sockets API Libraries:"
.HP
.BR accept (3)\ \-\ \c
accept a transport connection.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR bind (3)\ \-\ \c
bind a transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR connect (3)\ \-\ \c
establish a transport connection.
.HP
.BR getpeername (3)\ \-\ \c
get name of remote transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR getsockname (3)\ \-\ \c
get name of local transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR getsockopt (3)\ \-\ \c
get a socket option.
.HP
.BR libsocket (3)\ \-\ \c
socket library for use with
.BR socksys (4)
.HP
.BR libsocklib (3)\ \-\ \c
socket library for use with
.BR sockmod (4)
.HP
.BR listen (3)\ \-\ \c
listen for connections on a transport enpoint
.HP
.BR recv (3)\ \-\ \c
receive data on a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR recvfrom (3)\ \-\ \c
receive data from a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR recvmsg (3)\ \-\ \c
receive a message on a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR send (3)\ \-\ \c
send data on a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR sendmsg (3)\ \-\ \c
send a message on a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR sendto (3)\ \-\ \c
send data to a transport endpoint
.HP
.BR setsockopt (3)\ \-\ \c
set a socket option
.HP
.BR shutdown (3)\ \-\ \c
shut down a transport connection
.HP
.BR socket (3)\ \-\ \c
create a socket
.HP
.BR socketpair (3)\ \-\ \c
create a connected pair of sockets
.HP
.BR sockets (3)\ \-\ \c
the
.BR libsocket (3)
library
.HP
.BR socklib (3)\ \-\ \c
the
.BR libsocklib (3)
library
.HP
.BR sockmod (4)\ \-\ \c
socket module
.HP
.BR socksys (4)\ \-\ \c
socket system driver
.PD
.\"
.SS "Socket to Path Library:"
.HP
.BR sockpath (3)\ \-\ \c
the
.BR libsockpath (3)
library
.PD 0
.HP
.BR setsockpath (3)\ \-\ \c
access the
.BR sock2path (5)
database
.HP
.BR getsockpath (3)\ \-\ \c
get next
.BR sock2path (5)
database entry
.HP
.BR endsockpath (3)\ \-\ \c
close
.BR sock2path (5)
database
.HP
.BR getsockpathent (3)\ \-\ \c
get a
.BR sock2path (5)
database entry
.HP
.BR freesockpathent (3)\ \-\ \c
free
.BR sock2path (5)
database entry
.HP
.BR sp_errbuf (3)\ \-\ \c
sockpath error buffer
.HP
.BR sp_error (3)\ \-\ \c
sockpath error
.HP
.BR sp_perror (3)\ \-\ \c
print sockpath error
.HP
.BR sp_sperror (3)\ \-\ \c
sockpath error string
.HP
.BR sock2path (5)\ \-\ \c
sock2path database
.HP
.BR initsock (8)\ \-\ \c
initialize kernel sock2path database
.HP
.BR soconfig (8)\ \-\ \c
manage the kernel sock2path database
.PD
.\"
.SS Miscellaneous
.HP
.BR strsock (5)\ \-\ \c
the @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.PD 0
.HP
.BR strsock_mknod (8)\ \-\ \c
create socket system devices
.HP
.BR test-socket (8)\ \-\ \c
test the socket library
.HP
.BR test-socklib (8)\ \-\ \c
test the socklib library
.HP
.BR test-sockmod (8)\ \-\ \c
test the sockmod module
.HP
.BR test-sockpath (8)\ \-\ \c
test the sockpath library
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.HP
.BR sockmod (4)\ \-\ \c
Socket Module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
drivers:
.HP
.BR socksys (4)\ \-\ \c
Socket System driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR bind (3),
.BR connect (3),
.BR endsockpath (3),
.BR freesockpathent (3),
.BR getpeername (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR getsockopt (3),
.BR getsockpath (3),
.BR getsockpathent (3),
.BR libsocket (3),
.BR libsocklib (3),
.BR listen (3),
.BR recv (3),
.BR recvfrom (3),
.BR recvmsg (3),
.BR send (3),
.BR sendmsg (3),
.BR sendto (3),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR setsockpath (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR socketpair (3),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socklib (3),
.BR sockpath (3),
.BR sp_errbuf (3),
.BR sp_error (3),
.BR sp_perror (3),
.BR sp_sperror (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR sock2path (5),
.BR strsock (5),
.BR initsock (8),
.BR soconfig (8),
.BR strsock_mknod (8),
.BR test-socket (8),
.BR test-socklib (8),
.BR test-sockmod (8),
.BR test-sockpath (8).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
