'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: nsdev.4.man,v 0.9.2.6 2004/06/06 23:06:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/06/06 23:06:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH NSDEV 4 "$Date: 2004/06/06 23:06:58 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B nsdev
\- named \fISTREAMS\fP device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" \*(lq/dev/xxx.yyy\*(rq ", " oflags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B nsdev
is a \*(lqNamed STREAMS Device\*(rq pseudo-device driver similar in some
respects to
.BR clone (4).
.B nsdev
is perhaps the only assigned major device number that is ever needed by a
.I STREAMS
device driver.
.PP
Whereas the
.BR clone (4)
pseudo-device driver transforms the device number
.I dev
into
.BI makedevice(getminor( dev "), " 0 ),
the
.B nsdev
pseudo-device driver transforms the device number
.I dev
into
.BI makedevice( major ", getminor(" dev )),
where
.I major
is determined from the name of the device rather than the device number.
.PP
To determine the
.I major
component of the device number,
.B nsdev
looks for a registered
.I STREAMS
device with the same initial substring (before a dot) as the name of the device opened
.RI ( xxx
in the
.RI \(lq SYNOPSIS \(rq
above).
.PP
If no registered
.I STREAMS
device can be found that match the initial substring,
.IR xxx ,
of the device name, the
.B nsdev
requests that the kernel load the module named
.BI streams- xxx\fR,
where
.I xxx
is the longest initial substring of the device name that does not contain a
period (\(lq.\(rq) character.  This makes it possible to create Named STREAMS
Devices knowing only the character major device number associated with the
.B nsdev
driver and demand load other
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers that may then dynamically allocated their major device
numbers (or not allocate any major device numbers at all).
.PP
For additional information on device numbers, see the
.RI \(lq "Device Numbering" \(rq
section of the
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,
.BR SPG (9).
.\"
.SS
Super Cloning
.PP
The
.B nsdev
supports the concept of super cloning when used in conjunction with the
traditional
.BR clone (4)
device.
A super clone device has the clone device major device number as a major
number and the
.B nsdev
major device number as a minor number.  This is a traditional clone device
application to the
.B nsdev
pseudo-device driver.
This arrangement has the characteristic that when such a
.BR clone (4)
device is opened, it chains the open call to the
.B nsdev
with the
.B CLONEOPEN
flag set in
.IR sflag .
The Named STREAMS Device then chains the open to the device number derived
from the device name and the minor device number (in this case zero (0)) as
normal.
.\"
.SS
Named Clone Devices
.PP
The
.B nsdev
can be used to create named clone devices.  A named clone device can be
created by assigning the
.B ndev
major device number to devices with the name
.BI clone. yyy
and assigning the traditional clone device minor number (see
.BR clone (4)).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Performing an
.BR open (2)
of the
.B nsdev
can result in the loading of (or an attempt to load) the kernel module
named
.BI streams- xxx\fR.
.PP
If the device opened is a symbolic link, the name of the actual file is the
name used for determining the
.I major
device number of the cloned device.
If the device opened is a hard link, the name of the opened file is the name
used for determining the
.I major
device number of the cloned device.
.PP
.B nsdev
is used by the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
system provided drivers to limit the use of major device numbers to a single
major device number for the
.I STREAMS
system installed device drivers.
Clonable minor devices are allocated against a single
.I STREAMS
system major device number rather than allocating new major device numbers for
each facility.
.PP
When
.B nsdev
loads, it assigns a major device number either statically or dynamically.  In
either event, the major device number associated with the
.B nsdev
can be found by search the
.B /proc/devices
file for the major device number assigned to
.RB \*(lq nsdev \*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B nsdev
is not implemented as a normal
.I STREAMS
driver: it is implemented as a shadow special device node under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
shadow special device nodes call
.BR nsdev_open ()
from
.BR cdev_open ()
instead of
.BR spec_open ()
permitting the
.B nsdev
device to intercept and redirect the open call to the appropriate device.
This is consitent with the descriptions for the internal
.BR clone_open ()
under
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following are some examples of how to use the
Named STREAMS Device:
.SS
Named STREAMS Device Example
.PP
If the following is performed to create the device (assuming that major device
number 56 is the major device number of the Named STREAMS Device):
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> mknod -m 0666 /dev/mystream.04 c 56 3
$> ln -s /dev/mystream.04 /dev/ticlts
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
then opening
.RB \*(lq /dev/ticlts \*(rq
will result in opening minor device number
.I 3
of the
.RB \*(lq mystream \*(rq
device.
The device will be opened with the
.I sflag
argument to
.BR qopen (9)
set to
.B DRVOPEN
unless the device has had cloning set using
.BR D_CLONE
during registration of the major or minor device nodes (see
.BR register_strdev (9)),
or unless
.BR SAP_CLONE
was set using the
STREAMS Administrative Driver
.BR sad (4)
for the ultimate device node.  In either of these later cases, the device will
be opened with a
.I sflag
argument of
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.SS
Super Clone Example
.PP
If the following is performed to create a
.BR clone (4)
device in addition to the above example (assuming that the
.BR clone (4)
major device number is 74):
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> mknod -m 0666 /dev/mystream.00 c 56 0
$> mknod -m 0666 /dev/mystream c 74 56
$> ln -s /dev/mystream my_super_clone_device
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
then opening either
.RB \*(lq my_super_clone_device \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq /dev/mystream \*(rq
will result in opening minor device number
.I 0
of the
.RB \*(lq mystream \*(rq
device with the
.I sflag
argument to
.BR qopen (9)
being set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
For additional information on the super cloning technique using the Named
STREAMS Device, see
.BR clone (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR clone (4),
.BR sad (4),
.BR SPG (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B nsdev
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.B nsdev
is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B nsdev
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific device.
.IP \(em
Although
.B nsdev
is
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific, the operation of this device is a file system artifice and is
transparent to both the
.I STREAMS
device user and the
.I STREAMS
device driver itself.
.IP \(em
When the
.B nsdev
is opened directly, the driver has no indication that it has been opened via
the Named STREAMS Device and, for all intents and purposes, appears to the
driver as having been opened as a direct minor node of the driver.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B nsdev
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific mechanism.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B nsdev
first appeared in
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
