'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sfx.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SFX 4 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "Under Construction"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sfx, fifo
\- \fISTREAMS\fR FIFO Device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
none
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The named pipe obtained by opening a special device node created with the
.BR mkfifo (1)
command are not necessarily \fISTREAMS\fR devices.  The
.B sfx
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver provides a mechanism for assigning
.IR STREAMS -based
fifos within the filesystem.
.PP
The
.B sfx
pseudo-device driver is a regular
.I STREAMS
character special device driver with the following exceptions:
.NP
.NP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Normally a
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with a device number.  For
.BR sfx ,
the
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with the inode in the file system in which the
character special node was created.  This acts identically to a FIFO created
with
.BR mkfifo (1),
with the exception that a
.BR stat (2)
on the device node will say that it is an
.B S_IFCHR
device node.  A
.BR fstat (2)
on a file descriptor opening this device node in the file system will say that
the file descriptor is of type
.BR S_IFIFO .
.PP
It may be necessary to push the
.BR pipemod (4)
module on one end of the FIFO to maintain the sense of
.BR M_FLUSH .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.BR /dev/sfx .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mkfifo (1),
.BR stat (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR spx (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B sfx
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B sfx
is a character special node based replacement for fifos.  See
.BR mkfifo (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B fifos
first appeared in SVR 3,
.[
SVR 3
.]
but were not implemented using
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
