'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strnsl.5.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-28 22:11:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:11:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strnsl.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-28 22:11:45  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/08 16:24:21  brian
.\" - final updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/05 06:19:31  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/31 13:46:25  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strnsl.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strnsl.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRNSL 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
.BR streams (5),
consists of a base package that provides basic
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
capabilities for
.B Linux
and a number of separate add-on packages.
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on
UNIX systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or,
in this case, where functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of
implementations.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of the several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced network service support
beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.  This package provides support for
library functions termed the
.I Network Services Library
not provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that
implement the
name-to-address translation and network selection services
for the NSL library.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
user libraries:
.TP
.BR libxnsl (3)
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
applications for the XTI/TLI library environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is complete but has been largely untested.
It is being released as a reference point for the community.  If you are interested in completion of
this package, contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package installs the following manual pages:
.HP
.BR libxnsl (3)\ \-\ 
XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL)
.RB ( libxnsl )
.PD 0
.HP
.BR xnsl (3)\ \-\ 
XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL)
.RB ( libxnsl )
.HP
.BR endnetconfig (3)\ \-\ 
unbind from the network selection database.
.HP
.BR endnetpath (3)\ \-\ 
unbind from the NETPATH database.
.HP
.BR freenetconfigent (3)\ \-\ 
free a network selection database entry.
.HP
.BR getnetconfig (3)\ \-\ 
get an entry from the network selection database.
.HP
.BR getnetconfigent (3)\ \-\ 
get an entry from the network selection database by network id.
.HP
.BR getnetpath (3)\ \-\ 
get entry from NETPATH database.
.HP
.BR inetaddr (3)\ \-\ 
transport name-to-address translation shared object for INET.
.HP
.BR nc_perror (3)\ \-\ 
print a network selection error message.
.HP
.BR nc_sperror (3)\ \-\ 
obtain a network selection error message.
.HP
.BR _nderror (3)\ \-\ 
network selection error number.
.HP
.BR netbuf (3)\ \-\ 
the XTI/TLI netbuf structure.
.HP
.BR netconfig (3)\ \-\ 
Network Configuration database subroutines.
.HP
.BR netdir (3)\ \-\ 
Network Directory service subroutines.
.HP
.BR netdir_free (3)\ \-\ 
free network selection database data structures.
.HP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3)\ \-\ 
lookup host and service names in directory service by address.
.HP
.BR netdir_getbyname (3)\ \-\ 
lookup address in directory service by name.
.HP
.BR netdir_options (3)\ \-\ 
perform options management on a transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR netdir_perror (3)\ \-\ 
print a network directory error message.
.HP
.BR netdir_sperror (3)\ \-\ 
provide a network directory error string.
.HP
.BR netpath (3)\ \-\ 
Network Configuration path subroutines.
.HP
.BR setnetconfig (3)\ \-\ 
bind to or rewind the network selection database.
.HP
.BR setnetpath (3)\ \-\ 
bind to or rewind NETPATH database.
.HP
.BR taddr2uaddr (3)\ \-\ 
convert a transport address to a universal address.
.HP
.BR uaddr2taddr (3)\ \-\ 
convert a universal address to a transport address.
.HP
.BR netconfig (5)\ \-\ 
network configuration database.
.HP
.BR netdir (5)\ \-\ 
transport name-to-address translation shared objects.
.HP
.BR strnsl (5)\ \-\ 
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.HP
.BR test-xnsl (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR xnsl (3)
.I STREAMS
library.
.HP
.BR test-xnsl_thr (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR xnsl (3)
.I STREAMS
library.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package does not provide
.I STREAMS
modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package does not provide
.I STREAMS
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package request the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
XTI/TLI library.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Sockets library.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous releases of the
.B @PACKAGE@
were compatible with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will not support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.I Alpha
release are releases that have received little to no testing, or that have been tested
and contains known bugs or defects that make the package unsuitable even for testing.  The purpose
for an
.I alpha
release are the same as for the
.I pre-alpha
release, with the additional purpose that it is an earily release of partially functional code that
has problems that an external developer might be willing to fix themselves and contribute back to
the project.
.PP
.I Alpha
release packages ship containing warnings that executing the code can crash machines and might
possibly do damage to systems upon which it is executed.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package has unknown defects.  This is an
.I alpha
release.  Some defects could be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
on this software.  The software might fail to configure or compile on some systems.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you do not use this software for purposes other than develoment or evaluation, and
then only with great care.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I alpha
software.  As such, it can likely crash your kernel.  Installation of the software can irreparably
mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it unusable.  Crashes could
lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the problem.  You can possibly lose all
the data on your system.  Because this software can crash your kernel, the resulting unstable system
could destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.  You could void the warranty on
any system on which you run this software.
.BR "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, but is considered
.I alpha
grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems or development requests can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports or development requests.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR libxnsl (3),
.BR xnsl (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetpath (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR inetaddr (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR _nderror (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netdir_free (3),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3),
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.BR netdir_options (3),
.BR netdir_perror (3),
.BR netdir_sperror (3),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR setnetpath (3),
.BR taddr2uaddr (3),
.BR uaddr2taddr (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netdir (5),
.BR strnsl (5),
.BR test-xnsl (8),
.BR test-xnsl_thr (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B libnsl
or
.B libnls
library is present in
.I SVR 4.2
UNIX systems.  The Name to Address mapping and Network Configuration services
present in this package is present in
.B libnsl
on most
.I SVR 4.2
based UNIX systems.
.B Linux
also has a
.B libnsl
library; however, it is missing the Name to Address mapping and Network
Configuration services provided in this package.  These services appear in
most branded UNIX systems, but derived from Sun Microsystem's TI-RPC package.
.IP ""
The majority of the other components of Sun's TI-RPC package are present in
.B glibc2
under
.BR Linux .
However, the
.B rpcbind
service is missing
.RB ( glibc2
uses
.B portmap
instead of
.BR rpcbind ),
and must of the trasnport independent portion of the TI-RPC has been strapped
out (only IP protocols are provided and the Transport Independent RPC
functions are not implemented).
.IP \(em
The Name to Address translation and Network Configuration services provided by
.B @PACKAGE@
are compatible with those from Sun's TI-RPC package and present in most
branded UNIX offerings.
.IP \(em
Because
.B Linux
already has a
.BR libnsl
library (which, unfortunately is missing these major components), the library
under
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
has been renamed to
.BR libxnsl .
.PP
For additional compatibility information, see
.BR libxnsl (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
POSIX did not standardize on these functions.  The library was build to be
compatible with Sun's TI-RPC.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
When work on the
.B @PACKAGE@
package initially began, it was made part of the
.B strxnet (5)
release package.  However, it was never publicly released as part of that
package.  Primarily due to licensing restrictions, the Name to Address mapping
functions and Network Configuration functions were moved to this separate
package and pulicly released as
.BR "@PACKAGE@-0.9.2.1" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
