'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man7/A_ASSOC_REQ.7.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH A_ASSOC_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "X/Open ASCE/Presentation (XAP)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
\- initiate an ASCE A-ASSOCIATE request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP Library to initiate the establishment of an association between to
application entities.  After sending an
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
primitive, no other primitives can be issued, except
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7) or " A_PABORT_REQ (7),
unitl an
.BR A_ASSOC_CNF (7)
primitive is received.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page description for
.BR ap_snd (3)
for information conerning the effects of sending the
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
primitives and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
To send an
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
primitive, the arguments to
.BR ap_snd (3)
must be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This argument identifies the APLI/XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
This arugment must be set to
.BR AP_A_ASSOC_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long udata_length;
ap_a_assoc_env_t *env;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I udata_length
The length of the user-information field of the PDU.
.TP
.I env
Environment attribute values to override to form the association.
.RE
.PP
Where this primitive is to be sent using a series of calls to
.BR ap_snd (3)
with the
.B AP_MORE
flag set,
.I cdata->udata_length
should be set to the total number of octets of encoded user data that will be
sent with this primitive.  If the total number of octets of encoded user-data
is not known this field may be set to minus one
.RB ( -1 ).
However, in some XAP implementations, setting this field to minus one
.RB ( -1 )
may significantly degrade performance as it requires the implementation to
buffer data until a complete SPDU can be transmitted.
.PP
The total number of octets of encoded user-data that can be sent with this
primitive may be subject to an implementation dependent restriction.  Any such
restriction will be stated in the CSQ for an implementation.
.PP
The
.I cdata->env
argument can be used to override XAP environment attribute values used as
parameters to the A-ASSOCIATE request service.  If no attribute values are to
be overridden,
.I cdata->env
many be set to
.BR NULL .
Otherwise,
.I cdata->env
must point to an
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure, and the following elements are used for this primitive:
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
unsigned long mask;             /* bit mask         */
unsigned long mode_sel;         /* AP_MODE_SEL      */
ap_objid_t cntx_name;           /* AP_CNTX_NAME     */
ap_aei_api_id_t clg_aeid;       /* AP_CLG_AEID      */
ap_aeq_t clg_aeq;               /* AP_CLG_AEQ       */
ap_aei_api_id_t clg_apid;       /* AP_CLG_APID      */
ap_apt_t clg_apt;               /* AP_CLG_APT       */
ap_aei_api_id_t cld_aeid;       /* AP_CLD_AEID      */
ap_aeq_t cld_aeq;               /* AP_CLD_AEQ       */
ap_aei_api_id_t cld_apid;       /* AP_CLD_APID      */
ap_apt_t cld_apt;               /* AP_CLD_APT       */
ap_paddr_t rem_paddr;           /* AP_REM_PADDR     */
ap_cdl_t pcdl;                  /* AP_PCDL          */
ap_cdrl_t pcdrl;                /* AP_PCDRL         */
ap_dcn_t dpcn;                  /* AP_DPCN          */
ap_qos_t qos;                   /* AP_QOS           */
unsigned long a_version_sel;    /* AP_ACSE_SEL      */
unsigned long p_version_sel;    /* AP_PRES_SEL      */
unsigned long s_version_sel;    /* AP_SESS_SEL      */
unsigned long afu_sel;          /* AP_AFU_SEL       */
unsigned long pfu_sel;          /* AP_PFU_SEL       */
unsigned long sfu_sel;          /* AP_SFU_SEL       */
ap_conn_id_t *clg_conn_id;      /* AP_CLG_CONN_ID   */
unsigned long init_sync_pt;     /* AP_INIT_SYNC_PT  */
unsigned long init_tokens;      /* AP_INIT_TOKENS   */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I mask
element of this structure is a bit mask indicating which environment
attributes associated with this primitive are to be overridden.  Values for
the field are formed by OR'ing together zero or more flags listed in the table
below.  When a bit is set, the value of the associated parameter will be taken
from the
.I cdata
argument rather than from the XAP environment.  Specifying a value for a
particular parameter in the
.I cdata
argument has the same effect on the value of the corresponding attribute in
the XAP environment as calling
.BR ap_set_env (3).
See the description of the related environment attributes for information on
how the fields of this argument are used.
.PP
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb
lb|l|li.
flag:parameter:field
_
AP_A_VERSION_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
ACSE Version Selector
T}:a_version_sel
AP_AFU_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
ACSE Requirements
T}:afu_sel
AP_CLD_AEID_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Called AE Invocation-identifier
T}:cld_aeid
AP_CLD_AEQ_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Called AE Qualifier
T}:cld_aeq
AP_CLD_APID_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Called AP Invocation-identifier
T}:cld_apid
AP_CLD_APT_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Called AP Title
T}:cld_apt
AP_CLG_AEID_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Calling AE Invocation-identifier
T}:clg_aeid
AP_CLG_AEQ_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Calling AE Qualifier
T}:clg_aeq
AP_CLG_APID_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Calling AP Invocation-identifier
T}:clg_apid
AP_CLG_APT_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Calling AP Title
T}:clg_apt
AP_CLG_CONN_ID_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Session-connection identifier
T}:clg_conn_id
AP_CNTX_NAME_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Application Context Name
T}:cntx_name
AP_DPCN_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Default Presentation Context Name
T}:dpcn
AP_INIT_SYNC_PT_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Initial Synch. Serial Point Number
T}:init_sync_pt
AP_INIT_TOKENS_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Initial Token Assignment
T}:init_tokens
AP_MODE_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Mode
T}:mode_sel
AP_P_VERSION_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Presentation Version Selector
T}:p_version_sel
AP_PCDL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Presentation Context Defintion List
T}:pcdl
AP_PCDRL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Presentation Context Defintion Result List
T}:pcdrl
AP_PFU_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Presentation Requirements
T}:pfu_sel
AP_QOS_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Quality of Service
T}:qos
AP_REM_PADDR_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Called Presentation Address
T}:rem_paddr
AP_S_VERSION_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Session Version Selector
T}:s_version_sel
AP_SFU_SEL_BIT:T{
.ad l
.nh
Session Requirements
T}:sfu_sel
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.RS
.PP
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the contents of
.I ubuf
buffer(s) is assumned to be a value of type SET encoded according to the Basic
Encoding Rules for ASN.1.
.[
iso 8825-2
.]
The SET value should have an implicit context-specific tag with a value of 1
(i.e., [1] IMPLICIT).  However, the XAP Library will not examine this value to
verify that it is valid.  Refer to the ISO Presentation Layer protocol
definition (reference ISO 8823)
.[
iso 8823
.]
for further information concerning the encoding of these values.
.RE
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
This must point to a location that will be set to an error code if a failure
occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The following attributes must be set before issuing the primitive:
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ,
.BR AP_CNTX_NAME ,
.BR AP_LCL_PADDR ,
.BR AP_REM_PADDR ,
.BR AP_LIB_SEL .
.PP
The following attributes may be used when issuing the primitive:
.BR AP_ACSE_SEL ,
.BR AP_CLD_AEID ,
.BR AP_CLD_AEQ ,
.BR AP_CLD_APID ,
.BR AP_CLD_APT ,
.BR AP_CLG_AEID ,
.BR AP_CLG_AEQ ,
.BR AP_CLG_APID ,
.BR AP_CLG_APT ,
.BR AP_CLG_CONN_ID ,
.BR AP_DPCN ,
.BR AP_INIT_SYNC_PT ,
.BR AP_INIT_TOKENS ,
.BR AP_MODE_SEL ,
.BR AP_PCDL ,
.BR AP_PFU_SEL ,
.BR AP_PRES_SEL ,
.BR AP_QOS ,
.BR AP_ROLE_ALLOWED ,
.BR AP_SESS_SEL ,
.BR AP_SFU_SEL .
.PP
The following attributes may change as a result of issuing the primitive:
.BR AP_ROLE_CURRENT ,
.BR AP_STATE .
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is originated by the XAP interface client.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR AP_IDLE .
.PP
The next state is
.B AP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq
(waiting for an A-ASSOCIATE confirmation having issued an A-ASSOCIATE
request).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.PP
In addition to those listed in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3),
the following error codes can be reported for this primitive:
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADROLE ]
The
.B AP_INITIATOR
bit of the
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
attribute is not set.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_snd (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
XAP described that if
.I cdata->udata_length
is set to minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the
.B AP_MORE
bit is set, some implementations must wait for the entire packet (accumulating
it in memory) to determine the length before sending the message.  The OpenSS7
APLI and XAP Libraries use the indefinite-length form for encoding rather than
waiting for the entire message to accumulate.
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_REQ
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
