'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:35:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:35:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:35:55  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
\- halt input
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_disposal;
} cd_halt_input_req_t;

/* Actions to take with undelivered data */
#define CD_FLUSH        0x00    /* Discard undelivered data */
#define CD_WAIT         0x01    /* Attempt to deliver unsent
                                   data */
#define CD_DELIVER      0x02
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitive requests that the input section be halted.
.PP
When a stream is enabled with
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
it can be used immediately for transmission.  If the stream returns
.B CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
the device automatically allows input and there is no need to call
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7)
for the device.  However,
.B CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
will halt input on such a device.
.PP
In addition, if the input section is temporarily enabled with
.BR CD_READ_REQ (7),
on a half-duplex communications device,
then
.B CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
will abort the read operation.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_disposal
Specifies how unsent messages are to be disposed.  This field can be one of
the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CD_FLUSH
Discard undeliverable data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received will be discarded.  Any data awaiting transmission the
the device's write queue will be flushed.
.TP
.B CD_WAIT
Attempt to deliver unsent data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received the provider will attempt to send before acknowledging the
primitive.  The provider will not wait for acknowledgment of sent messages.
.TP
.B CD_DELIVER
Deliver unsent data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received the provider will deliver before acknowledging the
primitive.  The provider will wait for acknowledgment of sent messages.
.RE
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CD_ENABLED ,
.BR CD_INPUT_ALLOWED ", or "
.BR CD_READ_ACTIVE .
The new state is
.BR CD_ENABLED .
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires that the CD provider acknowledge receipt of the
primitive as follows:
.PP
.B "Successful:"
Upon success, the provider will acknowledge receipt of the primitive with the
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  The new state is
.BR CD_ENABLED .
.PP
.B "Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):"
Upon failure, the provider will acknowledge receipt of the primitive with the
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the error inidcated in the primitive.  The new state remains
unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.B "Non-Fatal Errors:"
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DISC ]
Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
.\"Unitdata request failed.
.PP
.B Note:
if the communications device is in the
.B CD_ENABLED
state and the input section is not active, the
.B CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
primitive should be ignored and no non-fatal error generated.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
