'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:35:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:35:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:35:57  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_ATTACH_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_ATTACH_REQ (dl_attach_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider associate a physical point of
attachment (PPA) with astream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one M_PROTO message block, which contains the
following structure.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_ppa;
} dl_attach_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_ATTACH_REQ
is needed for style 2 DLS providers to identify the physical
medium over which communication will transpire.  The request may not be
issued to a style 1 DLS provider; doing so may cause errors.
.PP
The DLS provider may initialize the physical line on receipt of this
primitive or the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7).
Otherwise, the line must be initialized
through some management mechanism before this request is issued by the DLS
user.  Either way, the physical link must be initialized and ready for use
on successful completion of the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The
.B dl_attach_req_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_ppa
conveys the identifier of the physical point of attachment to be associated
with the stream.  The format of the identifier is provider-specific, and it
must contain sufficient information to distinguish the desired PPA from
all possible PPAs on a system.  At a minimum, this must include
identification of the physical medium over which communication will
transpire.  For media that multiplex multiple channels over a single physical
medium, this identifier should also specify a specific channel to be used
for communication (where each channel on a physical medium is associated with
a separate PPA).

Because of the provider-specific nature of this value, DLS user software that
is to be protocol independent should avoid hard-coding the PPA
identifier.  The DLS user should retrieve the necessary PPA identifier from
some other entity (such as a management entity) and insert it without
inspection into the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_UNATTACHED ,
but only when local acknowledgement of a request or response primitive is not
pending for the requesting Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_ATTACH_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the attach request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user
resulting in state
.BR DL_UNBOUND .
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
One of the following errors may be returned in the
.B DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive:
.TP
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested PPA.
.TP
.B DL_BADPPA
The specified PPA is invalid.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_INITFAILED
Automatic initialization of the PPA failed.
.TP
.B DL_NOTINIT
The PPA had not been initialized prior to this request.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.PP
See
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
for a description of specific Linux error codes applicable to DLPI.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_ATTACH_REQ
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Each implementation of DLPI manages its own Physical Point of Attachment (PPA)
address space in different ways.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
encodes the framing and Linux system interface index in a composite PPA.  When
porting programs from another implementation to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
it may be necessary to make modifications to the way in which the PPA is
managed or passed to the application.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
provides a non-standard primitive,
.BR DL_HP_PPA_REQ (7)
that can be used to obtain a PPA.  It also provides a
.BR lanscan ()
utility that lists the available PPAs in the system.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
documents UNIX error codes (listed in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
reference page).  Other implementations do not document these codes.  Portable
programs will not rely upon the specific value of a Linux error code for proper
operation.
.IP \(em
The DLPI error codes
.BR DL_NOTINIT " and " DL_INITFAILED
are not documented by the DLPI standard,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
but are implied by the text of the standard.  Portable DLPI applications should
be prepared to receive any DLPI non-fatal error code in reply to any request or
response primitive.
.IP \(em
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
documents that LAPB PPAs are defined at system configuration time using the
.BR L_SETPPA (4)
input-output control, whereas LLC2 PPAs are associated with the hardware at
system boot time.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
LLC2 driver,
.BR llc2 (4),
uses the Linux device index as the PPA.  The LAPB driver,
.BR lapb (4),
uses the Linux device index or input-output controls to establish the PPA.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
