'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man7/DL_CONNECT_RES.7.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CONNECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CONNECT_RES (dl_connect_res_t)
\- directs the DLS provider to accept a connect request from a remote
(calling) DLS user on adesignated stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_resp_token;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_growth;
} dl_connect_res_t;
\f(CW\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
directs the DLS provider to accept a connect request from a remote (calling)
DLS user on adesignated stream.  The DLS user may accept the connection on the
same stream where the connect indication arrived, or on a different stream
that has been previously bound.  The response contains the correlation number
from the corresponding
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND ,
selected quality of service parameters, and an indication of the stream on
which to accept the connection.
.PP
After issuing this primitive, the DLS user may immediately begin
transferring data using the
.BR DL_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  If the DLS provider receives one or more
.BR DL_DATA_REQ (7)
primitives from the local DLS user before it has completed connection
establishment, however, it must queue the data transfer requests internally
until the connection is successfully established.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys the correlation number that was received with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
associated with the connection request.  The DLS provider will use the
correlation number to identify the connect indication to which the DLS user
is responding.
.TP
.I dl_resp_token
if non-zero, conveys the token associated with the responding stream on
which the DLS provider is to establish the connection; this stream must
be in the state
.BR DL_IDLE .
The token value for a stream can be obtained by issuing a
.BR DL_TOKEN_REQ (7)
on that stream.  If the DLS user is accepting the connection on the stream
where the connect indication arrived, this value must be zero.  See
.I \*(lqConnection Establishment,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7),
for a description of the connection response
model.
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the length of the quality of service parameter values selected by
the called DLS user.  The selected QOS values are conveyed in the appropriate
structure as defined in
.I \*(lqQOS Data Structures,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
A full specification of these QOS parameters and rules for negotiating their
values is presented in
.I \*(lqQuality of Data Link Service,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
If the DLS user does not care which value is selected for a particular QOS
parameter, the value
.B DL_QOS_DONT_CARE
may be specified.  If the DLS user does not care which values are selected for
all QOS parameters, this field may be set to zero.
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the quality of service parameters begin.
.TP
.I dl_growth
defines a growth field for future enhancements to this primitive.  Its
value must be set to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_CODLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The primitive is valid in state
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_CONN_RES_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the connect response is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user.  If no outstanding connect indications remain, the
resulting state for the current stream is
.BR DL_IDLE ;
otherwise it remains
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING .
For the responding stream (designated by the parameter
.IR dl_resp_token ),
the resulting state is
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
If the current stream and responding stream are the same, the resulting state
of that stream is
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
These streams may only be the same when the response corresponds to the only
outstanding connect indication.  If the request fails,
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned on the stream where the
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
primitive was received, and the resulting state of that stream and the
responding stream is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the responding
stream.
.TP
.B DL_BADCORR
The correlation number specified in this primitive did not correspond to
apending connect indication.
.TP
.B DL_BADTOKEN
The token for the responding stream was not associated with a currently open
stream.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSPARAM
The quality of service parameters contained invalid values.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSTYPE
The quality of service structure type was not supported by the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state, or the responding
stream was not in a valid state for establishing aconnection.
.TP
.B DL_PENDING
Current stream and responding stream is the same and there is more than one
outstanding connect indication.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
does not support connection-oriented service mode directly.
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
only supports connection-oriented service mode.
.IP \(em
Neither
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
nor
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
support QOS parameters and both
.IR dl_qos_length " and " dl_qos_offset
must be zero (0).
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports OSI data link QOS parameters defined for DLPI,
.BR DL_QOS_CO_RANGE1 " and " DL_QOS_CO_SEL1 ,
where the range is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
primitives and the selection is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitives.  The
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitive will not contain a selection unless the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive contained a range.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
