'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CONTROL_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ (dl_control_req_t)
\- control underlying driver
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define _SUN_SOURCE
#include <sys/dlpi.h>
#include <sys/dlpi_sun.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_operation;
    t_uscalar_t dl_type;
    t_uscalar_t dl_key_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_key_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_data_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_data_length;
} dl_control_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
is an extensible message to send down control information to the DLS provider.
The response is a
.BR DL_CONTROL_ACK "(7) or " DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
This manual page contains definitions and structures needed for
.BR DL_CONTROL_REQ "(7) and " DL_CONTROL_ACK (7)
primitives.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The
.B dl_control_req_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CONTROL_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_operation
The operation to perform.  Each operation has diffent requirements as to the
presence or absence of contents in the
.IR dl_key_offset ", " dl_key_length
fields,
.RI < key >,
and the
.IR dl_data_offset ", " dl_data_length
fields,
.RI < data >.
The
.I dl_type
field,
.RI < type >,
is always required.
.RS
.PP
This field can have one of the following values:
.TP
.B DL_CO_ADD
Add new entry matching for
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >.
This operation requires the
.RI < type >,
.RI < key >
and
.RI < data >
fields.
When the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
matches an already existing entry, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive will be issued in response.
.TP
.B DL_CO_DELETE
Delete the entry matching
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >.
This operation requires only the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
fields.
When the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
does not match an existing entry, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive will be issued in response.
.TP
.B DL_CO_FLUSH
Purge all entries matching
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >.
This operation requires only the
.RI < type >
field.
.TP
.B DL_CO_GET
Get the data for the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >.
This operation requires only the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
fields.
When the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
does not match an existing entry, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive will be issued in response.
.TP
.B DL_CO_UPDATE
Updates the data for
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >.
This operation requires the
.RI < type >,
.RI < key >
and
.RI < data >
fields.
.TP
.B DL_CO_SET
Add or update data for
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
as appropriate.
This operation requires the
.RI < type >,
.RI < key >
and
.RI < data >
fields.
When the
.RI < type >
and
.RI < key >
already exists, an update is performed; when it does not
exist, an add is performed.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_type
Specifies the
.RI < type >
of control.  This field can have one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CT_IPSEC_AH
The
.RI < key >
is the SPI and destination IP address using a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_key_t
structure, the
.RI < data >
is keyring material using a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_t
structure.
.TP
.B DL_CT_IPSEC_ESP
The
.RI < key >
is the SPI and destination transport address using a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_key_t
structure, the
.RI < data >
is keyring material using a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_t
structure.
.RE
.TP
.IR dl_key_offset ", " dl_key_length
Describes an area in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
messages block of length
.I dl_key_length
beginning
.I dl_key_offset
bytes from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
This area defines the
.RI < key >
for the control.
.RS
.PP
When
.RI < type >
is
.BR DL_CT_IPSEC_AH " or " DL_CT_IPSEC_ESP
this area contains a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_key_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DL_CTL_IPSEC_ADDR_LEN   16

typedef struct dl_ct_ipsec_key {
    uint32_t dl_key_spi;
    uint8_t dl_key_dest_addr[DL_CTL_IPSEC_ADDR_LEN];
    uint32_t dl_key_addr_family;
} dl_ct_ipsec_key_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_ct_ipsec_key_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_key_spi
Conveys the Security Parameters Index (SPI) value.
.TP
.I dl_key_dest_addr
Conveys the destination IP address or destination transport address.
.TP
.I dl_key_addr_family
Conveys the address family:
.B AF_INET
for IPv4 or
.B AF_INET6
for IPv6.
.RE
.TP
.IR dl_data_offset ", " dl_data_length
Describes an area in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
messages block of length
.I dl_data_length
beginning
.I dl_data_offset
bytes from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
This area defines the
.RI < data >
for the control.
.RS
.PP
When
.RI < type >
is
.BR DL_CT_IPSEC_AH " or " DL_CT_IPSEC_ESP
this area contains a
.B dl_ct_ipsec_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DL_CT_IPSEC_MAX_KEY_LEN 512

typedef struct dl_ct_ipsec {
    uint8_t sadb_sa_auth;
    uint8_t sadb_sa_encrypt;
    uint32_t sadb_sa_flags;
    uint16_t sadb_key_len_a;
    uint16_t sadb_key_bits_a;
    uint16_t sadb_key_data_a[DL_CT_IPSEC_MAX_KEY_LEN];
    uint16_t sadb_key_len_e;
    uint16_t sadb_key_bits_e;
    uint16_t sadb_key_data_e[DL_CT_IPSEC_MAX_KEY_LEN];
} dl_ct_ipsec_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_ct_ipsec_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I sadb_sa_auth
Conveys the authentication security algorithm.  This field can have one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_NONE
No authentication.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_MD5HMAC
Authentication using the MD5 HMAC.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_SHA1HMAC
Authentication using the SHA1 HMAC.
.RE
.TP
.I sadb_sa_encrypt
Conveys the encryption security algorithm.  This field can have one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_NULL
No encryption.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_DES
Encryption using DES.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_3DES
Encryption using triple-DES.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_BLOWFISH
Encryption using Blowfish.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_AES
Encryption using AES.
.RE
.TP
.I sadb_sa_flags
Conveys the security algorithm flags.  This field can have zero or more of the
following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_ALG_ENABLE
.RE
.TP
.I sadb_key_len_a
Conveys the authentication key length in bytes.
.TP
.I sadb_key_bits_a
Conveys the authentication key length in bits.
.TP
.I sadb_key_data_a
Conveys the authentication key.
.TP
.I sadb_key_len_e
Conveys the encryption key length in bytes.
.TP
.I sadb_key_bits_e
Conveys the encryption key length in bits
.TP
.I sadb_key_data_e
Conveys the encryption key.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in any state other than state
.BR DL_UNATTACHED .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
If the request is successful,
.BR DL_CONTROL_ACK (7)
is issued to the DLS user.
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 16
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to make the request.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _SUN_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file,
or it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/dlpi_sun.h >
header file,
to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DL_CONTROL_ACK (7),
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7),
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_CONTROL_REQ
was first documented in
.IR Solaris \(rg .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
