'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CONNECT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CONNECT_IND (dl_connect_ind_t)
\- conveys to the local DLS user that a remote (calling) DLS user wishes to
establish a data link connection.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_called_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_called_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_calling_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_calling_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_growth;
} dl_connect_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
conveys to the local DLS user that a remote (calling) DLS user wishes to
establish a data link connection.  The indication contains the DLSAP address
of the calling and called DLS user, and the quality of service parameters as
specified by the calling DLS user and negotiated by the DLS provider.
.PP
The
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
also contains a number that allows the DLS user to correlate a subsequent
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES "(7), " DL_DISCONNECT_REQ "(7), or " DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
with the indication (see Multi-threaded Connection Establishment
.BR dlpi (7)).
.PP
The number of outstanding
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
primitives issued by the DLS
provider must not exceed the value of
.I dl_max_conind
as returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
If this limit is reached and an additional connect request arrives, the DLS
provider must not pass the corresponding connect indication to the DLS user
until a response is received for an already outstanding indication.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys the correlation number to be used by the DLS user to associate this
message with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES "(7), " DL_DISCONNECT_REQ "(7), or " DL_DISCONNECT_IND
that is to follow.  This value, then, enables the DLS user to multi-thread
connect indications and responses.  All outstanding connect indications must
have a distinct, non-zero correlation value set by the DLS provider.
.TP
.I dl_called_addr_length
conveys the length of the address of the DLSAP for which this
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
primitive is intended.  This address is the full DLSAP address specified by
the calling DLS user and is typically the value returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)
associated with the given stream.
.TP
.I dl_called_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the called DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_calling_addr_length
conveys the length of the address of the DLSAP from which the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive was sent.
.TP
.I dl_calling_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the calling DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the range of quality of service parameter values desired by
the calling DLS user and negotiated by the DLS provider.  The range of
QOS values is conveyed in the appropriate structure defined in
.IR "\*(lqQOS Data Structures" , \*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
A full specification of these QOS parameters and rules for negotiating their
values is presented in
.IR "\*(lqQuality of Data Link Service" , \*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
For any parameter the DLS provider does not support or cannot determine,
the corresponding parameter values will be set to
.BR DL_UNKNOWN .
If the DLS provider does not support any QOS parameters, this length field
will be set to zero.
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the quality of service parameters begin.
.TP
.I dl_growth
defines a growth field for future enhancements to this primitive.  Its
value will be set to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_CODLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE ,
or state
.B DL_INCON_PENDING
when the maximum number of outstanding
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
primitives has not been reached on this stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING ,
regardless of the current state.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
The DLS user must eventually send either
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
to accept the connect request or
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
to reject the connect request.  In either case, the responding message must
convey the correlation number received in the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND .
The DLS provider will use the correlation number to identify the connect
request to which the DLS user is responding.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_CONNECT_IND
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
does not support connection-oriented service mode directly.
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
only supports connection-oriented service mode.
.IP \(em
See
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
for considerations on the format of the called and calling DLSAP addresses.
.IP \(em
Neither
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
nor
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
support QOS parameters and both
.IR dl_qos_length " and " dl_qos_offset
must be zero (0).
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports OSI data link QOS parameters defined for DLPI,
.BR DL_QOS_CO_RANGE1 " and " DL_QOS_CO_SEL1 ,
where the range is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
primitives and the selection is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitives.  The
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitive will not contain a selection unless the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive contained a range.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
