'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_DETACH_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_DETACH_REQ (dl_detach_req_t)
\- for style 2 DLS providers, this requests the DLS provider detach a
physical point of attachment (PPA) from a stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
} dl_detach_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
For style 2 DLS providers, this requests the DLS provider detach a
physical point of attachment (PPA) from a stream.  The request may not be
issued to a style 1 DLS provider; doing so may cause errors.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_UNBOUND .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_DETACH_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the detach request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user resulting in state
.BR DL_UNATTACHED .
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
One of the following errors may be returned in the
.B DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive:
.TP 16
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.PP
See
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
for a description of specific Linux error codes applicable to DLPI.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_DETACH_REQ
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The implementations are rather inconsistent in their error handling of this
primitive when it is issued on a
.B DL_STYLE1
DLS provider.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
returns a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
with the error code
.BR DL_NOTSUPPORTED .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
appears to return
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
with
.B DL_SYSERR
and
.RB [ ENOTSUP ].
Other are not clear.
.RS
.PP
Portable programs will not issue
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ
on a
.B DL_STYLE1
Stream.
.RE
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
documents the UNIX error codes (listed as Linux error codes above).  Other
implementations do not document these codes.  Portable programs will not rely
upon the specific value of a Linux error code for proper operation.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
