'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_ERROR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_ERROR_ACK (dl_error_ack_t)
\- informs the DLS user that a previously issued request or response
was invalid.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_error_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_errno;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_unix_errno;
} dl_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_ERROR_ACK
informs the DLS user that a previously issued request or response was invalid.
It conveys the identity of the primitive in error, a DLPI error code, and if
appropriate, a Linux system error code.  Whenever this primitive is generated,
it indicates that the DLPI state is identical to what it was before the
erroneous request or response.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The
.B dl_error_ack_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK .
.TP
.I dl_error_prim
identifies the primitive in error.
.TP
.I dl_errno
conveys the DLPI error code associated with the failure.  See the individual
request or response for the error codes that are applicable.  In addition to
those errors, the following errors may be reported:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_BADPRIM\fP\(em'u
.B DL_BADPRIM
An unrecognized primitive was issued by the DLS user.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
A recognized but unsupported primitive was issued by the DLS user.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_unix_errno
conveys the Linux system error code associated with the failure.  This value
should be non-zero only when
.I dl_errno
is set to
.BR DL_SYSERR .
It is used to report Linux system failures that prevent the processing of a
given request or response.
See the individual request or response reference page for the error codes that
are applicable.  In addition to those errors, the following errors may be
reported:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_BADPRIM\fP\(em'u
.RB [ EPERM ]
Fine-grained permission for the request or response is incorrect.  That is, the
primitive is recognized and supported by the DLS Provider but the requesting
DLS User Stream does not have sufficient permissions for the DLS Provider to
satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was available to satisfy the request.
The request or response may be successful if the DLS User reissues the request
or response primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient buffers were available to satisfy the request.
The request or response may be successful if the DLS User reissues the request
or response primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Insufficient STREAMS resources were available to satisfy the request.
The request or response may be successful if the DLS User reissues the request
or response primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A temporary failure occurred and the DLS user should reissue the request or
response.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The control information in the request or response primitive has already been
subjected to the control request or response, or the driver is unabled to
handle the request due to some other transient condition.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
One of the parameters of the request for which there is no prescribed DLPI
error code has an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSUP ]
Unsupported request, event or call.  The DLS provider recognizes and supportes
the request or response primitive, however, the specific request or response is
not supported by the DLS provider or data link protocol.
.TP
.RB [ ENOLINK ]
The interface (Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) or underlying driver or
device) is not connected and no prescribed DLPI error code is applicable.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
Invalid device.  The interface (Phsyical Point of Attachment (PPA) or
underlying driver or device) is no longer installed on the system.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in every state where an acknowledgement or
confirmation of a previous request or response is pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is that from which the acknowledged request or response
was generated.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_ERROR_ACK
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The DLPI standard does not proscribe the use of specific Linux error codes.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
details the use of Linux error codes with regard to DLPI primitives for the
purpose of clarification of the implementation.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is largely compatible with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
in this regard.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
