'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_STATUS_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_STATUS_IND
\- indicate status of remote MTP-SAP or congestion
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_status_ind {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;    /* always MTP_STATUS_IND */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;  /* length of affected MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;  /* offset of affected MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_type;         /* type */
    mtp_ulong mtp_status;       /* status */
} MTP_status_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MTP status indication provides information about remote affected MTPs.  It
provides indicaiton of signalling network congestion towards are remote
affected MTP, and indication of unavailability of a remote affected MTP-SAP.
.PP
MTP status indications are either preventative or responsive.  When
preventative, the indication is given in response to a protocol event or local
management event.  When responsive, the indication is given in response to an
.PP
MTP status indications referring to congestion can indicate affected
signalling point clusters as well as individual affected signalling points.
See
.BR mtpi (7)
for a descripton of the MTP address format.
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ
to the affected destination or MTP-SAP.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_STATUS_IND .
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
Indicates the length of the affected MTP or MTP-SAP address.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the affected MTP or MTP-SAP address from the beginning
of the
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block.
.TP
.IR mtp_type ", " mtp_status
The interpretation of the
.I mtp_status
field depends on the value of the
.I mtp_type
field.
The
.I mtp_type
field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_CONG
The indication refers to signalling network congestion towards the affected
TMP and the
.I mtp_status
field details the degree of congestion.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_UPU
The indication refers to unavailability of an affected MTP-SAP and the
.I mtp_status
field details the reason for the unavailability.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_status
This field depends on the type of the status indication,
.IR mtp_type :
.RS
.PP
When the
.I mtp_type
field is
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_CONG
the
.I mtp_status
field can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL0
Signalling network congestion level 0.
This indicates to the MTP User that congested has subsided to the affected
destination.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL1
Signalling network congestion level 1.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 1 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 1.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL2
Signalling network congestion level 2.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 2 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 2.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL3
Signalling network congestion level 3.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 3 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 3.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION
Signalling network congestion (unspecified level).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
When the
.I mtp_type
field is
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_UPU
the
.I mtp_status
field can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_UNKNOWN
User part unavailable: unknown.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_UNEQUIPPED
User part unavailable: unequipped remote user.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_INACCESSIBLE
User part unavailable: inaccessible remote user.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in response to an interal event of the MTP provider
and does not require a response from the MTP User.  The state remains
unchanged.
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the MTP provider.
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in all modes; however, in the pseudo connection oriented mode, the MTP provider will only issue
.B MTP_STATUS_IND
primitives referring to the MTP to which the the stream is connected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
