'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:36:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:36:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:36:03  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ
\- manage options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.BR M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_optmgmt_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_opt_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_opt_offset;
    mtp_ulong mtp_mgmt_flags;
} MTP_optmgmt_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the MTP User to manage the options associated with the
MTP stream.  The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.SS Parameters
.PP
The primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ .
.TP
.I mtp_opt_length
specifies the length of the MTP options to be managed.  Options are formatted
as for
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I mtp_opt_offset
specifies the offset of the MTP options to be managed from the beginning of
the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
specifies the management flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.SS Flags
.PP
The management flags can have one of the following values:
.TP
.B MTP_DEFAULT
requests that the MTP provider return the default values for the specified
options.  If
.I mtp_opt_length
is zero (0), return the default values of all options.
.TP
.B MTP_CHECK
requests that the MTP provider check the the options and option values
provided in the primitive and return the suitability of the options and option
values with indication of success or failure for each option by setting the
.BR MTP_SUCCESS " or " MTP_FAILURE
flag on each option.
.TP
.B MTP_NEGOTIATE
requests that the MTP provider negotiate the options provided in the primitive
and return the negotiated values of the specified options.  If
.I mtp_opt_length
is zero (0), this has the same effect as
.BR MTP_DEFAULT ,
above.
.TP
.B MTP_CURRENT
requests that the MTP provider return the current options.  If
.I mtp_opt_length
is zero (0), then the current values of all options is returned.
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in any state when a local acknowledgement is not
pending.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the
MTP User.
.SS Rules
.PP
.IP \(em 4
If the value of
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
is
.BR MTP_DEFAULT ,
the provider should return the default provider options without changing the
existing options associated with the stream.
.IP \(em
If the value of
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
is
.BR MTP_CHECK ,
the provider should return the options as specified in the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive along with the additional flags
.BR MTP_SUCCESS " or " MTP_FAILURE
which idnicate to the user whether the specfied options are supportable by the
provider.  The provider should not change any existing options associated with
the stream.
.IP \(em
If the value of
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
is
.BR MTP_NEGOTIATE ,
the provider should set and negotiate the option as specified as follows:
.RS
.IP \(em 4
If the
.I mtp_opt_length
field is zero (0), then the transport provider is to set and return the
default options associated with the stream in the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
If options are specified, then the transport provider is to negotiate those
options, set the negotiated options and return those negotiated options in the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.  It is the MTP User's responsibility to check the negotiated
options returned in the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive and take appropriate action.
.RE
.IP \(em
If the value of
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
is
.BR MTP_CURRENT ,
the provider should return the currently effective option values without
changing any existing options associated with the stream.
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, the MTP provider must issue a
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive specifying the error as defined under
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primtive requires the MTP provider to generate one of the following
acknowledgements on receipt of the primitive, and that the MTP User wait for
the acknowledgement before issuing any other primitive:
.HP
.I Successful:
acknowledgemnt of the primitive with the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.HP
.I Non-fatal Errors:
non-fatal errors will be indicated with the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Non-fatal errors are indicated in the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error in the
.I mtp_mtpi_error
parameter.  Appropriate error codes are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux\(rg
system error occured and the
.IR errno (3)
is contained in the
.I mtp_unix_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permissions for the use of the requested
options.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADADDR ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MNOADDR ]
.TP
.RB [ MBADPRIM ]
The primitive is unknown to the MTP provider or was badly formatted.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
.TP
.RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
The primitive was known to the MTP provider but is not supported.
.TP
.RB [ MBADFLAG ]
The
.I mtp_mgmt_flags
field was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MBADOPT ]
The options are poorly formatted or contain invalid information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
