'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_CONN_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_CONN_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:19  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_CONN_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_CONN_REQ
\- associate with a remote MTP-SAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.BR M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_conn_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;
    mtp_ulong mtp_conn_flags;
} MTP_conn_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The MTP connection request is used by the MTP User to associate the requesting
stream with a remote MTP-SAP.  As MTP is a connectionless protocol, this is a
loose association.  This serves to place the stream in the
.BR MTPS_DATA_XFER
state and the stream is treated in connection oriented mode until it is
disassociated with the remote MTP-SAP with the
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive.
.PP
Once in connection oriented mode, the MTP stream will only issue
.BR MTP_STATUS_IND "(7), " MTP_PAUSE_IND "(7) and " MTP_RESUME_IND (7)
primitives refering to the remote connected MTP address or MTP-SAP.
Also, in connection oriented mode, the
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7)
primitive does not require a destination MTP-SAP address.
.PP
Multiple MTP streams can be bound to the same local MTP-SAP with
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
yet can be successfully connected to different remote MTP-SAP addresses with
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ .
.SS Parameters
.PP
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ .
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
specifies the length of the address to which to associate the requesting
pseudo-connection oriented stream.
This address must specify an MTP-SAP.  See
.BR mtpi (7)
for a description of the MTP address format.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
specifies the offset of the address to which to associate the requesting
pseudo-connection oriented stream, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_conn_flags
specifies the connection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.SS Flags
.PP
No flags are currently defined and the
.I mtp_conn_flags
field must be coded zero (0).
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MTPS_IDLE .
The new state is
.BR MTPS_WACK_CREQ .
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the MTP User.
.SS Rules
.PP
.IP \(em 4
If no address is provided in the primitive (i.e.
.I mtp_addr_length
is zero (0)), then the MTP provider may assign an address to which to connect.
If no address can be provided, the MTP provider will return an error.
.IP \(em
If the
.I mtp_addr_length
field is zero (0), then the
.I mtp_addr_offset
field is ignored by the MTP provider.
.IP \(em
When provider, the connection address must specify an individual signalling
point code and user part.  That is, an MTP-SAP address must be specified.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primitive requires the MTP provider to acknowledge receipt of the
primitive as follows:
.HP
.I Successful:
On success, the MTP provider acknowledges the primitive with a
.BR MTP_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  The resulting state is
.BR MTPS_DATA_XFER .
.HP
.I Non-fatal Errors:
On non-fatal failure, the MTP provider acknowledges the primitive with a
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7),
including the error code for the failure.
See
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
The state remains unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Non-fatal errors are returned in the
.I MTPI_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
Applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux\(rg
system error occured and the
.IR errno (3)
is indicated in the
.I UNIX_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permissions to connect to the requested
MTP-SAP.
.TP
.RB [ MBADADDR ]
The address provided was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
The address must specify a particular remote MTP-SAP.
.TP
.RB [ MNOADDR ]
No address was provided and the MTP provider could not assign an address.
.TP
.RB [ MBADPRIM ]
The primitive is unknown to the MTP provider or was poorly formatted or
contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the interace out of state.
.TP
.RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is known to the MTP provider but is not supported by the MTP
provider.
.TP
.RB [ MBADFLAG ]
The
.I mtp_conn_flags
field was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADOPT ]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR MTP_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
