'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_ENABLE_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:36:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:36:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MX_ENABLE_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:36:03  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_ENABLE_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_ENABLE_REQ, MX_enable_req, MX_enable_req_t
\- multiplex enable request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_enable_req {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_ENABLE_REQ */
} MX_enable_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the multiplex associated with the requesting stream and the
attached channels be enabled.
.PP
Some multiplex provided by some multiplex service providers might require
interactions with the transmission peer to enable the multiplex.  An example
of such multiplex types are the H.223 multiplex and compressed channel
multiplexes.
.PP
This primitive is used to inform the underlying transmission device that the
requesting multiplex must be enabled
.IR "post haste" .
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_ENABLE_REQ .
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service User.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_ATTACHED .
The resulting state is
.BR MXS_WACK_EREQ .
.SH RULES
These primitives require the multiplex service provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the multiplex
service user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other
primitives:
.TP
.B Successful:
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated with the
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is
.BR MXS_WCON_EREQ .
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors:
These errors will be indicated with the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is unchanged and remains the
same as the state in which the primitive was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ MXSYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
A UNIX system error occured during the execution of the primitive and the UNIX
error number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I mx_unix_error
field of the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADADDR ]
.\"Bad address format or content.
.\"The specified address was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXOUTSTATE ]
Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interface out of state.  The
.B MX_ENABLE_REQ
primitive is valid only in the
.B MXS_ATTACHED
state.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADOPT ]
.\"Bad options format or content.
.\"The options specified were poorly formatted or contains invalid information.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADPARM ]
.\"Bad parameter format or content.
.\"A parameter contained in the specified options was poorly formatted or
.\"contained invalid information.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADPARMTYPE ]
.\"Bad paramater structure type.
.\"The structure type within the options was unrecognized or invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADFLAG ]
.\"Bad flag.
.\"The flags specified were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPRIM ]
Bad primitive.
The primitive type was unrecognized or the primitive was poorly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ MXNOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported.
The primitive type was recognized, but is not supported on the requesting
stream or by the multiplex service provider.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADSLOT ]
.\"Bad multplex slot.
.\"The slot specified in field
.\".I mx_slot
.\"was invalid or out of range.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
