'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_INFO_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_INFO_ACK, MX_info_ack, MX_info_ack_t
\- information acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_info_ack {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_INFO_ACK */
    ulong mx_addr_length;       /* channel address length */
    ulong mx_addr_offset;       /* channel address offset */
    ulong mx_parm_length;       /* channel paramters length */
    ulong mx_parm_offset;       /* channel paramters offset */
    ulong mx_prov_flags;        /* provider options flags */
    ulong mx_style;             /* provider style */
    ulong mx_version;           /* channel interface version */
} MX_info_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates to the multiplex serivce user requested information concerning the
multiplex service provider associated with the requesting stream and the
attached channels (if any).
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_INFO_ACK .
.TP
.I mx_addr_length
indicates the length of the channel addresses.
.TP
.I mx_addr_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the channel addresses.
.TP
.I mx_parm_length
indicates the length of the channel parameters associated with the channels
attached to the requesting stream.
.TP
.I mx_parm_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the channel parameters associated with the channels attached
to the requesting stream.
.TP
.I mx_prov_flags
indicates the provider options flags.  No flags are currently specified.
.TP
.I mx_style
indicates the style of the multiplex.
.I mx_style
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B MX_STYLE1
indicates that the stream does not need to perform an attach as described in
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7).
.TP
.B MX_STYLE2
indicates that the stream needs to perform attach as described in
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7).
.RE
.TP
.I mx_version
indicates the version of the
.B MXI
to which the multiplex service provider conforms.  This version can be one of
the following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B MX_VERSION_1_0
indicates Version 1.0 of the Multiplex Interface (MXI) Specification.
.TP
.B MX_VERSION
indicates the current version
.RB ( MX_VERSION_1_0 ).
.RE
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid any state.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
