'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_BIND_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:20  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_BIND_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_BIND_ACK, N_bind_ack_t
\- bind protocol address acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
Format The format of the message is one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, and its structure is the following:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;       /* always N_BIND_ACK */
    ulong ADDR_length;     /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;     /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;   /* connection indications */
    ulong TOKEN_value;     /* NC response token value */
    ulong PROTOID_length;  /* length of protocol id */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;  /* offset from beg. of block */
} N_bind_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the NS user that the specified network user entity
has been bound to the requested network address and that the specified number
of connect indications are allowed to be queued by the NS provider for the
specified network address.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I ADDR_length
Is the length of the network address that was bound.

.TP
.I ADDR_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
block where the network address begins.

.TP
.I CONIND_number
Is the accepted number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by the
NS provider for the specified network address.  If its value is zero, this
stream cannot accept
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
messages.  If its value is greater than zero, then the NS user can accept
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
messages up to the value specified in this parameter before having to respond
with a
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
or a
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
message.  This field should be ignored for CLNS.

.TP
.I TOKEN_value
Conveys the value of the "token" assigned to this stream that canbe used by
the NS user in a
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive to accept a NC on this stream.  It is a non-zero value, and is unique
to all streams bound to the NS provider.  This field should be ignored for
CLNS.

.TP
.I PROTOID_length
Conveys the length of the protocol ids that were bound.

.TP
.I PROTOID_offset
Conveys the offset of the protocol ids that were bound.  The proper alignment
of the address in the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.SH RULES
Bind Rules: The following rules apply to the binding of the specified network
address to the stream
.IP \- 4
If the
.I ADDR_length
field in the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is zero, then the NS provider is to assign a network address to the
user.
.IP \-
The NS provider is to bind the network address as specified in the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.  If the NS provider cannot bind the specified address, it may assign
another network address to the user.  It is the network user's responsibility
to check the network address returned in the
.B N_BIND_ACK
primitive to see if it is the same as the one requested.
.PP
The following rules apply to negotiating
.I CONIND_number
argument:
.IP \- 4
The
.I CONIND_number
in the
.B N_BIND_ACK
primitive must be less than or equal to the
corresponding requested number as indicated in the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
Only one stream that is bound to the indicated network address may have
a negotiated accepted number of maximum connect requests greater than zero.  If
a
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive specifies a value greater than zero, but another stream
has already bound itself to the given network address with a value greater than
zero, the NS provider should assign another protocol address to the user.
.IP \-
If a stream with
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero is used to accept a connection, the stream will be found
busy during the duration of that connection and no other streams may be bound
to that network address with a
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero.  This will prevent more than one stream bound
to the identical network address from accepting connect indications.
.IP \-
A stream requesting a
.I CONIND_number
of zero should always be legal.  This indicates to the NS provider that the
stream is to be used to request connections only.
.IP \-
A stream with a negotiated
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero may generate connect requests or accept connect indications.
.SH RESPONSE
If the above rules result in an error condition, then the NS provider must
issue an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the NS user specifying the error as defined
in the description of the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH STATE
This primitive is in response to a
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive and is valid in the
state
.BR NS_WACK_BREQ .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The new state is
.BR NS_IDLE .
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
