'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man7/N_DATA_REQ.7.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_DATA_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_DATA_REQ, N_data_req_t
\- normal data transfer request
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.  Use of a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is optional.
.PP
The structure of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, if present, is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATA_REQ */
    ulong DATA_xfer_flags;  /* bit masking for data xfer flags */
} N_data_req_t;

/* Data Transfer Flags */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user-originated primitive indicates to the NS provider that this message
contains NS user data.  It allows the transfer of NS user data between NS users,
without modification by the NS provider.  The NS user must send any integral
number of octets of data greater than zero.  In a case where the size of the
NSDU exceeds the NIDU (as specified by the size of the
.I NIDU_size
parameter of the
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive), the NSDU may be broken up into more than one NIDU.  When an NSDU
is broken up into more than one NIDU, the
.B N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
will be set on each NIDU except the last one.  The
.B RC_flag
may only be set on the last NIDU.
.PP
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is used for two reasons:
.IP "i." 5
to indicate that the NSDU is broken into more than one NIDUs, and that the
data carried in the following
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block constitutes one NIDU;
.IP ii.
to indicate whether receipt confirmation is desired for the NSDU.  Guidelines
for use of
.BR M_PROTO :
The following guidelines must be followed with respect to the
use of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block:
.RS
.IP "1." 4
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block need not be present when the NSDU size is less than or equal to
the NIDU size and one of the following is true:
.RS
.IP \- 4
receipt confirmation has been negotiated for non-use (via the
.B N_CONN
primitives); or
.IP \-
receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use or non-use
and the default selection as specified via the
.B N_OPTMGMT
primitive is to be used.
.RE
.IP 2.
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block must be present when:
.RS
.IP \- 4
the NSDU size is greater than the NIDU size;
.IP \-
receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use and the
default selection as specified via
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive needs to be overridden.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DATA_xfer_flags
.RS

.TP
.B N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
When set, the
.B MORE_DATA_FLAG indicates thatthe next
.B N_DATA_REQ
message (NIDU) is also part of this NSDU.

.TP
.B N_RC_FLAG
By setting this flag on the
.BR N_DATA_REQ ,
the originating NS user can request confirmation of receipt of the
.B N_DATA
primitive.  The receipt is provided by the
.B N_DATACK
primitives.  The parameter may only be present if use of Receipt Confirmation
was agreed by both NS users and the NS provider during NC establishment.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in the
.B NS_DATA_XFER
state.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state remains the same
.RB ( NS_DATA_XFER ).
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive does not require any acknowledgments, although it may generate
a fatal error.  This is indicated to the NS user via a
.B M_ERROR
.I STREAMS
message type (specifying an
.IR errno (3)
value of
.BR EPROTO )
which results in the failure of all system calls on that stream.
.SH ERRORS
The applicable errors are defined as follows:
.TP
.B [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP \- 4
The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.IP \-
The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive is outside the range
supported by the NS provider (as specified by the
.I NIDU_size
parameter of
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive).
.IP \-
The options requested are either not supported by the NS provider or its use
not specified with the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block was not followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.IP \-
The amount of NS user data associated with the current NSDU is outside the
range supported by the NS provider (as specified by the
.I NSDU_size
parameter in the
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.)
.IP \-
The
.B N_RC_FLAG
and
.B N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
were both set in the primitive, or the flags field contained an unknown value.
.RE
.PP
.B Note:
If the interface is in the
.B NS_IDLE
or
.B NS_WRES_RIND
states when the provider receives the
.B N_DATA_REQ
primitive, then the NS provider should discard the request without generating
a fatal error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR N_DATACK_IND (7),
.BR N_DATACK_REQ (7),
.BR N_DATA_IND (7),
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR errno (3).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
