'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_XCON_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_XCON_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:22  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_XCON_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_XCON_REQ, N_xcon_req_t
\- network cross-connection request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
The structure of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;    /* always N_CONN_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;  /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;  /* destination address offset */
    ulong CONN_flags;   /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;   /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;   /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_req_t;

/* Flags to indicate if options are requested */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the NS provider make a network connection to the
specified destination.
.PP
The specification of the NS user data is optional.  The NS user can send any
integral number of octets of data within the range supported by the NS provider
(see
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)).
If the user does not specify QOS parameter values, the default values
(specified via
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7))
are used by the NS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.
.\"
.TP
.I DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address parameter that conveys an
address identifying the NS user to which the NC is to be established.  This
field will accommodate variable length addresses within a range supported
by the NS provider.
.\"
.TP
.I DEST_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
.\"
.TP
.I CONN_flags
Specifies the connection flags that are a bitwise OR of any of the following
flags:
.RS
.TP
.B REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be supported by the NS provider to be used on the NC.
.\"
.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
Indicates the use of the expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The
expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it to
be used on the NC.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.I QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that apply to the NC being
requested.  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its
value should be set to
.BR QOS_UNKNOWN .
If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this
field should be set to zero.
.\"
.TP
.I QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE 
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The new state is
.BR NS_WCON_CREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
The following acknowledgments are valid for this primitive:
.HP
.B Successful NC Establishment:
This is indicated via the
.BR N_CONN_CON (7)
primitive.  This results in the data transfer state.
.HP
.B Unsuccessful NC Establishment:
This is indicated via the
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive.  For example, a connection may be rejected because either the called
NS user cannot be reached, or the NS provider and/or the called NS user did
not agree with the specified QOS.  This results in the idle state.
.HP
.B Non-fatal errors:
These are indicated via the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address
or options.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSPARAM ]
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by
the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSTYPE ]
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
The network address was in an incorrect format or contained illegal
information.  It is not intended to indicate NC errors, such as an unreachable
destination.  These errors types are indicated via the
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NBADOPT ]
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
