'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_XLISTEN 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Layer Interface (NLI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_Xlisten
\- Listen Request and Listen Response
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.[
nli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR nli (7).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

struct xlistenf {
    unsigned char xl_type;
    unsigned char xl_command;
    int lmax;
    int l_result;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct lcud {
    unsigned char l_cumode;
    unsigned char l_culength; /* octets */
    unsigned char l_cubytes[0];
    /* followed by l_culength bytes */
};
struct ladd {
    unsigned char l_mode;
    unsigned char l_type;
    unsigned char l_length; /* semi-octets */
    unsigned char l_add[0];
    /* followed by ((l_length+1)>>1) bytes
       containing l_length semi-octets. */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Listen Request or Response is used when an NS user wishes to register
interest in incoming calls and the NS provider acknowledges the request.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, and contains the
.B xlistenf
structure.
The data part of the message consists of one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks
containing the call user data and address of interest.
.PP
The Listen Request queue is ordered in terms of the amount of listen data
supplied.  The more a Listen Request asks for, the higher its place in the
queue.  Connect Indications are sent to the listener whose listening criteria
are best matched.
.PP
Privileged users can ask for a Listen Request to be placed at the front of the
queue, regardless of the amount of listen data supplied.  To do this, the Listen
Request should be sent as a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message.  This is achieved by
setting the
.B RS_HIPRI
flag in
.BR putmsg (2s).
Such requests are
searched in the order in which they arrive.
.PP
The system adminstrator controls whether or not listening for incoming  calls is
a privileged operation.  If listening is privileged, incoming calls will be sent
only to on listen streams opened by a user with superuser privilege.  This
prevents other users accepting calls that may contain private information,
passwords, and so on.
.PP
In systems where privileged and non-privileged listens are allowed:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Privileged listens have priority.
.IP \(bu
A matching but busy privileged listen prevents a search of any
non-privileged listens.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The Listen Request and Listen Response use the
.B xlistenf
structure.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, and contains the
.B xlistenf
structure.
The data part of the message consists of one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks
containing the call user data and address of interest.
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B xlistenf
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I xl_type
Always \fBXL_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I xl_command
Always \fBN_Xlisten\fP, for both Listen Request and Listen Response.
.TP
.I lmax
Conveys the maximum number of outstanding Connect Indications that the listening
Stream is willing to accept, for the addresses conveyed in the attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.RS
.PP
Listen requests are cummulated but this field is not.  The maximum number of
outstanding Connect Indications will be reflected by the value of this field for
the last successful Listen Request issued by the NS user.
.RE
.TP
.I l_result
Conveys the result of the Listen Request in a Listen Response message primitive.
An error in the parameters or a lack of resources results in this flag being set
to a non-zero value.
.PP
The
.BR M_DATA (9)
portion of the message contains the following members:
.TP
.I l_cumode
Specifies the type of matching.
This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
X25_DONTCARE:1:Represents a wildcard.
X25_STARTSWITTH:2:Contains a prefix.
X25_IDENTITY:3:Contains an identity match.
.\"X25_PATTERN:4:Contains a pattern. (Note that \fBX25_PATTERN\fP is Solstice X.25 specific.)
.\"X25_MATCH:4:Contains a pattern match. (Note that \fBX25_MATCH\fP appears to be PT WAN specific.)
.\"X25_SNID:5:Contains a Subnetwork ID (SNID).
_
.TE
.TP
.B Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
When the \fIl_cumode\fP is set to \fBX25_DONTCARE\fP, the
\fIl_culength\fP and \fIl_cubytes\fP fields are ommitted from the
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block.
.RE
.TP
.I l_culength
Contains the bytes to be matched against the Call User Data (CUD).
.TP
.I l_cubytes
Contains the bytes to be matched against the Call User Data (CUD).
.TP
.I l_mode
Specifies the type of matching.
This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
X25_DONTCARE:1:Represents a wildcard.
X25_STARTSWITTH:2:Contains a prefix.
X25_IDENTITY:3:Contains an identity match.
X25_PATTERN:4:Contains a pattern.
.\"X25_MATCH:4:Contains a pattern match. (Note that \fBX25_MATCH\fP appears to be PT WAN specific.)
.\"X25_SNID:5:Contains a Subnetwork ID (SNID).
_
.TE
.TP
.B Notes:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
When the \fIl_mode\fP is set to \fBX25_DONTCARE\fP, the
\fIl_type\fP, \fIl_length\fP and \fIl_add\fP fields are ommitted from
the
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block.
.IP 2.
When the \fIl_mode\fP is set to \fBX25_PATTERN\fP, the
\fIl_add\fP field can contain the wilcard digits \*(lq\fB*\fP\*(rq and \*(lq\fB?\fP\*(rq that
have the same effect as these characters in regular expressions: that is,
\*(lq\fB*\fP\*(rq represents zero or more characters of any value, and \*(lq\fB?\fP\*(rq
represents single character of any value.  The \*(lq\fB*\fP\*(rq character is represented
by the BCD digit \fB0xF\fP and the \*(lq\fB?\fP\*(rq character is represented by the BCD
digit \fB0xE\fP.
.IP 3.
\fBX25_PATTERN\fP is Solstice X.25 specific.
.RE
.TP
.I l_type
This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
X25_DTE:1:Contains an X.25 DTE (X.121) address.
X25_NSAP:2:Contains a CONS NSAP address.
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I l_length
Specifies the length of the \fIl_add\fP field in semi-octets.  That is, the
length of the \fIl_add\fP field in octets is: \*(lq\fB((l_length+1)>>1)\fP\*(rq.  The
maximum length for a DTE address is 15 or 17 semi-octets (that is, 8 or 9
octets) depending upon whether TOA/NPI addressing is used.  The maximum length
for an NSAP address is 20 semi-octets (that is, 10 octets).
.TP
.I l_add
Contains the bytes to be matched against the DTE address or the NSAP address.
.RS
.PP
Each semi-octet is a BCD representation.  That is, digits in the range \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq through
\*(lq\fB9\fP\*(rq are represented by \fB0x0\fP through \fB0x9\fP in the semi-octet
position.  The first digit occupies the high order nibble of the first octet;
the second digit, the low order nibble of the first octet; the third digit, the
high order nibble of the second octet; and so on.  If @member{l_length} is odd,
the low order nibble of the last octet is ignored.
.PP
When the @member{l_mode} field is @pval{X25_PATTERN}, a semi-octet of
\fB0xF\fP represents a \*(lq\fB*\fP\*(rq wildcard, and a semi-octet of \fB0xE\fP
represents a \*(lq\fB?\fP\*(rq wildcard.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This message primitive is valid in the disconnected phase or during an incoming
connecting phase.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
When an NS user issues a Listen Request, the NS user expects a Listen Response
message primitive from the NS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The Listen Request message primitive is equivalent to the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
of the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7);
the Listen Response,
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.B N_Xlisten
is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xaddrf (5),
.BR lsapformat (5),
.BR qosformat (5),
.BR extraformat (5),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_Xlisten
is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of
.BR N_Xlisten .
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
