'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: npi_sccp.7.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: npi_sccp.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:28  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NPI-SCCP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B NPI-SCCP
\- Network Provider Interface \- Corrigendum for SCCP Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_sccp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B NPI-SCCP
provides a Stream supporting the Network Provider Interface,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR npi (7),
to the Signalling Connection Control Part,
.[
q711
.]
.BR sccp (4).
This
.IR STREAMS (9)
interface provides the
.BR sccp (4)
protocol service interface using the
N-primitives of the
.BR npi (7).
This interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules
requiring a rich
.BR npi (7)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The
.B NPI-SCCP
address is formatted as a socket address for compatibility with the
.BR sockets (3)
library for
.BR tpi (7).
The address is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct sccp_addr {
    np_ulong ni;                /* network indicator */
    np_ulong ri;                /* routing indicator */
    np_ulong pc;                /* point code (-1 not present) */
    np_ulong ssn;               /* subsystem number (0 not present) */
    np_ulong gtt;               /* type of global title */
    np_ulong tt;                /* translation type */
    np_ulong es;                /* encoding scheme */
    np_ulong nplan;             /* numbering plan */
    np_ulong nai;               /* nature of address indicator */
    np_ulong alen;              /* address length */
    np_uchar addr[0];           /* address digits */
    /* followed by address bytes */
} sccp_addr_t;

#define SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN         0       /* route on DPC/SSN */
#define SCCP_RI_GT              1       /* route on GT */

#define SCCP_GTTTYPE_NONE       0       /* no GT */
#define SCCP_GTTTYPE_NAI        1       /* NAI only */
#define SCCP_GTTTYPE_TT         2       /* TT only */
#define SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP         3       /* TT, ES, NPLAN */
#define SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP_NAI     4       /* TT, ES, NPLAN and NAI */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B NPI-SCCP
address contains the following fields:
.TP
.I ni
Conveys the Network Indicator.  The Network Indicator is an implementation specific indication of
the numbering space in which the
.I pc
is relevant.  Network Indicators are assigned by the system administrator.
.TP
.I ri
Conveys the Routing Indicator.  The Routing Indicator determines which elements of the SCCP address
will be used for routing and can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN
Route on DPC/SSN.
.TP
.B SCCP_RI_GT
Route on Global Title.
.RE
.TP
.I pc
Conveys the SCCP Signalling Point Code.  The format of the Signalling Point Code is network
dependent.  Signalling Point Codes are least significant bit aligned in a 32-bit long word.
.TP
.I ssn
Conveys the SCCP Subsystem Number.  The subsystem number is network specific.
.TP
.I gtt
Conveys the Global Title type.  The global title type can also take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SCCP_GTTTYPE_NONE
No global title translation.
.TP
.B SCCP_GTTTYPE_NAI
Translate on Nature of Address Indicator only.
.TP
.B SCCP_GTTTYPE_TT
Translate on Translation Type only.
.TP
.B SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP
Translate on Translation Type, Encoding Scheme and Numbering Plan.
.TP
.B SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP_NAI
Translate on Translation Type, Encoding Scheme, Numbering Plan and Nature of Address Indicator.
.RE
.TP
.I tt
Conveys the Translation type.  Translation type assignments are network specific.
.TP
.I es
Conveys the Encoding Scheme.  The encoding scheme can also take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SCCP_ES_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B SCCP_ES_BCD_ODD
.TP
.B SCCP_ES_BCD_EVEN
.TP
.B SCCP_ES_NATIONAL
.RE
.TP
.I nplan
Conveys the Numbering Plan.  The numbering plan can also take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_ISDN
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_GENERIC
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_DATA
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_TELEX
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_MARITIME
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_LAND_MOBILE
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_ISDN_MOBILE
.TP
.B SCCP_NPLAN_PRIVATE
.RE
.TP
.I nai
Conveys the Nature of Address Indicator.
.TP
.I alen
Conveys the Address Length (length of the
.I addr
array).
.TP
.I addr
Conveys the Address.
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.\"
.SS N_INFO_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_INFO_ACK
.PP
As described in
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7).
.\"
.SS N_BIND_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_BIND_ACK
.PP
As described in
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7).
.\"
.SS N_UNBIND_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_UNBIND_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_OK_ACK
.PP
As described in
.BR N_OK_ACK (7).
.\"
.SS N_ERROR_ACK
.PP
As described in
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.SS N_OPTMGMT_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.\"
.SS N_UNITDATA_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_UNITDATA_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_UNITDATA_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_UDERROR_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_UDERROR_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_CONN_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_CONN_CON
.PP
As described in
.BR N_CONN_CON (7).
.\"
.SS N_CONN_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_CONN_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_CONN_RES
.PP
As described in
.BR N_CONN_RES (7).
.\"
.SS N_DATA_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_DATA_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DATA_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_EXDATA_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_DISCON_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_DISCON_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_DATACK_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DATACK_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_DATACK_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_DATACK_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_RESET_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_RESET_RES
.PP
As described in
.BR N_RESET_RES (7).
.\"
.SS N_RESET_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_RESET_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_RESET_CON
.PP
As described in
.BR N_RESET_CON (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "EXTENSION SERVICE PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.\"
.SS N_NOTICE_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_NOTICE_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_INFORM_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_INFORM_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_INFORM_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_INFORM_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_COORD_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_COORD_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_COORD_RES
.PP
As described in
.BR N_COORD_RES (7).
.\"
.SS N_COORD_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_COORD_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_COORD_CON
.PP
As described in
.BR N_COORD_CON (7).
.\"
.SS N_STATE_REQ
.PP
As described in
.BR N_STATE_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS N_STATE_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_STATE_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_PCSTATE_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_PCSTATE_IND (7).
.\"
.SS N_TRAFFIC_IND
.PP
As described in
.BR N_TRAFFIC_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B SCCP-NPI
supoprts the NPI input-output controls described for
.BR npi (7).
Also, it supports the SCCP management input-output controls described in
.BR sccp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
Protocol errors are handled using the
.BR N_UDERROR_IND "(7), " N_RESET_IND "(7) and " N_DISCON_IND (7)
primitives described above.
.PP
Non-fatal errors are handled using the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive as described in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Fatal errors are handled using the
.I STREAMS
.BR M_ERROR (9)
or
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
primitives which result in the failure of all subsequent operations on the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The following protocol errors can be returned in the
.I ERROR_type
field of the
.BR N_UDERROR_IND (7)
primitive, or in the
.I RESET_reason
field of the
.BR N_RESET_IND (7)
primitive, or the
.I DISCON_reason
field of the
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
primitives.
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.PD 0
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_END_USER_BUSY
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_END_USER_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_REMOTE_PROCEDURE_ERROR
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_INCONSISTENT_CONNECTION_DATA
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_MTP_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RESET_TIMER
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RECEIVE_INACTIVITY_TIMER
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_RESERVED
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B SCCP_RELC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_MTP_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_TRANSPORT_ERROR
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_LOCAL_PROCESSING_ERROR
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_NO_REASSEMBLY_AT_DESTINATION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_NOT_SUPPORTED
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_CHANGE_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INS_ROUTING_REQUEST
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INSI_ROUTING_REQUEST
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_UNAUTHORIZED_MESSAGE
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_INCOMPATIBILITY
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_CANNOT_PERFORM_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_REDUNDANT_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING_INFO
.TP
.B SCCP_RETC_UNABLE_TO_PERFORM_ISNI_IDENTIFICATION
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_ORDER_INCORRECT_PS
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_ORDER_INCORRECT_PR
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_WINDOW
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_INCORRECT_PS_AFTER_INIT
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_GENERAL
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_END_USER_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_NETWORK_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_ACCESS_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_NOT_OBTAINABLE
.TP
.B SCCP_RESC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B SCCP_ERRC_LRN_MISMATCH_UNASSIGNED_DEST_LRN
.TP
.B SCCP_ERRC_LRN_MISMATCH_INCONSISTENT_SOURCE_LRN
.TP
.B SCCP_ERRC_POINT_CODE_MISMATCH
.TP
.B SCCP_ERRC_SERVICE_CLASS_MISMATCH
.TP
.B SCCP_ERRC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_END_USER_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_END_USER_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_ADDRESS_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_INACCESSIBLE
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_PERM
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_TRANS
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_EXPIRATION_OF_NC_ESTAB_TIMER
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_INCOMPATIBLE_USER_DATA
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_RESERVED
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B SCCP_REFC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
.PD
.PP
Any of the non-fatal errors described in
.BR npi (7)
may also be returned in an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive by
.BR SCCP-NPI .
.PP
Any of the fatal errors described in
.BR npi (7)
may also be returned as a
.I errno
value in reponse to a read or write operation on the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B SCCP-NPI
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sccp_ioctl (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR read (2s),
.BR write (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This interface is specific to the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
first appeared in SVR4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
