'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: P_TOKENPLEASE_IND.7.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: P_TOKENPLEASE_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:24  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH P_TOKENPLEASE_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
\-  indicate request for Session tokens
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
primtiive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP Library environment to indicate the receipt of a request for tokens.  A token is an
attribute of an association that is dynamically assigned to one user at a time.  The user that
currently possesses a token has the exclusive use of the serivce it controls.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page description for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
for information concerning the effects of receiving the
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
primitive and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
When issuing
.BR ap_rcv (3),
the arguments must be set as described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
Upon return, the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
arguments will be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This argument, returned from a call to
.BR ap_open (3),
identifies the APLI or XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
The
.B unsinged long
pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_P_TOKENPLEASE_IND .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
unsigned long tokens;    /* requested tokens          */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I cdata->tokens
will indicate which token(s) was (were) requested by the remote service user.  Each requested token
is indicated by setting a different bit in the argument.  Thus,
.I cdata->tokens
will be set to one or more of the following values OR'ed together:
.TP \w'\fBAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP\(em'u
.B AP_DATA_TOK
Data token.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_MAJACT_TOK
Synchronize-major/activity token.
.TP
.B AP_SYNCMINOR_TOK
Synchronize-minor token.
.TP
.B AP_RELEASE_TOK
Release token.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if failure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODES
.PP
This primitive is valid both in
.RI \(lq Normal \(rq
and
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode.
.[
x410 1984
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
primitive is only issued by the AP provider in the
.BR AP_DATA_XFER ,
.BR AP_WRELcnf_RELreq ,
.BR AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq ,
.BR AP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq " and
.BR AP_WCDATAcnf_CDATAreq " states.
.PP
The next state of the XAP instance is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
