'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDL_CONNECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SDL_CONNECT_REQ, sdl_connect_req_t
\- connect request primitive
\"
\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The connect request primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sdl_long sdl_primitive;
    sdl_ulong sdl_flags;
} sdl_connect_req_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This SDLS user originated service primitive allows the SDLS user to connect the
user stream to the medium in the transmit, receive, or both, directions.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The connect request service primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I sdl_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SDL_CONNECT_REQ .
.TP
.I sdl_flags
Specifies the direction in which to connect.  This field can contain a bitwise
OR of one or more of the following flags:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B SDL_RX_DIRECTION
Specifies that the SDLS user stream is to be connected to the medium in the
receive direction.
.TP
.B SDL_TX_DIRECTION
Specifies that the SDLS user stream is to be connected to the medium in the
transmit direction.
.RE
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This service primitive is only valid in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
state.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SDLS User.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
The connection request service primitive is not acknowledged.  However, the
primitive may result in a non-fatal error as follows:
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful:
Upon success, the connection request service primitive is not acknowledged.
.IP \(en
.B Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):
Upon failure, the SDLS provider indicates a non-fatal error with a
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
message containing the error.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_INITFAILED
Link initialization failed.
.TP
.B LMI_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.702 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.2 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sdli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 2
of the SDLI interface.
.[
sdli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
