'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SDT_RC_SIGNAL_UNIT_IND.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:36:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:36:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SDT_RC_SIGNAL_UNIT_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:36:10  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT_RC_SIGNAL_UNIT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)"
.SH NAME
.B SDT_RC_SIGNAL_UNIT_IND, sdt_rc_signal_unit_ind_t
\- signal unit indication primitive
\"
\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The RC signal unit indication service primtive consists of one optional
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks containing the
receive signal unit.  The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, when present, is structured
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sdt_long sdt_primitive;
    sdt_ulong sdt_count;
} sdt_rc_signal_unit_ind_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The RC signal unit indication service primitive is issued by the SDTS provider
when a signal unit arrives on the signalling data link and passes error
detection.  The primitive is named the
.I RC
signal unit indication because this signal is normally sent to reception
control (RC) within the SS7 Level 2 state machine.  This primitive is an
indication from the DAEDR function in the SDTS provider to the Reception
Control (RC) function in the SDTS user.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The RC signal unit indication service primtive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sdt_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SDT_RC_SIGNAL_UNIT_IND .
.TP
.I sdt_count
When signal unit compression is in effect, this field contains a count of the
number of compressed identical signal units (not counting the original).  When
signal unit compression is not in effect, or the signal unit was not
compressed (it was not repeated on the line), this field is set to the value
0.
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only issued from the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SDTS Provider.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The SDTS provider observes the following rules when generating the RC signal
unit indication primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The primitive is only issued when the signalling data terminal is in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state.
.IP \(em
Received signal units are indicated only after the receivers have been enabled
using the
.BR SDT_DAEDR_START_REQ (7)
command and the DAEDR is in the
.B IN-SERVICE
state.
.IP \(em
Once the SDTS user is receiving signal units, it will continue to do so until
a fatal error occurs, the stream is closed, or the signalling data terminal is
disabled with the
.BR LMI_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is optional and is only really required for
indicating the count of compressed signal units.  When signal unit compression
is not in effect, or when a signal unit is not compressed (i.e. has a
.I sdt_count
of zero), the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is unnecessary and SDTS providers are encouraged to not include
it.  When the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not included, the signal unit is delivered simply as a chain
of one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks to the SDTS user.  The SDTS user must be prepared to receive RC
signal unit indications consisting of only
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.IP \(em
Most narrowband SS7 SDTS providers provider for signal unit compression.
Under this scheme, the first non-identical signal unit is indicated with a
.I sdt_count
of zero.  Should additional identical signal units be received, the will be
counted until another non-identical signal unit is received.  At that point,
an RC signal unit indication with a
.I sdt_count
indicating the number of compressed signal units is indicated followed by an
indication of the new non-identical signal unit with a
.I sdt_count
of zero.  And the cycle repeats.
.IP ""
To support this feature, SDTS users must be prepared to accept a compressed
frame representing all of the contiguous identical signalling units in this
fashion.  For example, the SDTS user cannot rely by its design on the third
identical signal unit causing a state transsition in a timely manner.
.IP \(em
Invocation and applicability of a signal unit compression feature is
provider-specific.  So, for example, Q.703 drivers use FISU and LSSU
compression techniques, whereas, M2PA (RFC 4165) does not require them.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
This primitive does not require a response from the SDTS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.702 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.2 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sdti (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SDTI interface.
.[
sdti
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
