'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:36:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:36:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:36:11  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND, sl_out_of_service_ind_t
\- out of service indication primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The out-of-service indication service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
    sl_ulong sl_timestamp;
    sl_ulong sl_reason;
} sl_out_of_service_ind_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The out-of-service indication service primitive is issued by the SLS provider
to indicate to the SLS user that a previously invoked link start has been
unsuccessful, or that a previously in-service signalling link has failed.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The out-of-service indication service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND .
.TP
.I sl_timestamp
Indication the time of the failure.  The time is indicated as UNIX time
from epoch in milliseconds.
.TP
.I sl_reason
Indicates the reason for failure to start the link or the reason for
failure of an in-service link.  The
.I sl_reason
field can assume one of the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_UNSPECIFIED
The signalling link failed for an unspecified reason.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_CONG_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed because of congestion timeout (T6 expiry).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ACK_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed because of acknowledgement timeout (T7
expiry).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ABNORMAL_BSNR
The signalling link failed because of receipt of an abnormal backward
sequence number (BSNR).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ABNORMAL_FIBR
The signalling link failed because of receipt of an abnormal forward
indicator bit (FIBR).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_SUERM_EIM
The signalling link failed because the SUERM or EIM error rate
threshold was exceeded.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ALIGNMENT_NOT_POSSIBLE
The signalling link failed because the AERM threshold was exceeded
and the maximum number of proving periods was exceeded.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIO
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIO during or after
alignment.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIN
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIN after proving.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIE
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIE after proving.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIOS
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIOS.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_T1_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed due to failure to align with remote (T1
timeout).
.RE
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only issued in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state.  This primitive is only issued from a link state other than
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
or
.BR SL_STATE_POWER_OFF .
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new link state is
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE .
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS Provider.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules are observed by the SLS provider when issuing the
out-of-service indication primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The primitive is only issued in response to a
.BR SL_START_REQ (7)
primitive that
was issued from the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
state, or as a result of a link
failure from the
.B SL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
state.
.IP \(em
The primitive is only issued once the signalling link has achieved the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
state.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
