'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_OPTDATA_REQ.7.man,v 1.1.2.3 2011-02-07 02:18:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_OPTDATA_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.3  2011-02-07 02:18:27  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OPTDATA_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_OPTDATA_REQ
\- Data request with options
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more message blocks, where each
.B M_DATA
message block contains zero or more bytes of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_optdata_req {
   t_scalar_t PRIM_type;       /* always T_OPTDATA_REQ           */
   t_scalar_t DATA_flag;       /* flag bits associated with data */
   t_scalar_t OPT_length;      /* options length                 */
   t_scalar_t OPT_offset;      /* options offset                 */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The primitive indicates to the transport provider that the message contains
a transport interface data unit.  One or more transport interface data units
form a transport service data units (TSDU).
.PP
Note that the maximum transport service and data unit sizes allowed by
transport provider is indicated to the user by the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.PP
This primitive has a mechanism that indicates the beginning and end of a
transport service data unit.  However not all transport providers support
the concept of a transport service data unit.
.PP
This primitive also provides mechanisms to have options associated with the
data being transferred.
.SH PARAMETERS
The fields of this message have the following semantics:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type
.TP
.I DATA_flag
This field specifies bit fields specific general properties associated
with the data being transferred.  The following settings are currently
defined:
.RS
.TP
.B T_ODF_MORE
When set, this bit indicates that the next
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7)
primitive is also part of this transport service data unit.
.RE
.TP
.I OPT_length
the length of the requested options asociated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) where the options asociated with this primitive begin.
.SH RULES
It is possible to use this primitive with no associated options, in which case
the
.I OPT_length
field is zero.
.PP
The primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may
generate a fatal error.  This is indicated via a
.B M_ERROR
message type, which results in the failure of all operating system service
routines on the stream.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
Thetransport service interface was found to be in an incorrect
state.  If the interface is in TS_IDLE state when the provider receives the
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7)
primitive, then the transport provider should just drop the message without
generating a fatal error.
.IP -
The amount of transport user data associated with the primitive
defines a transport service data unit larger than that allowed by the
transport provider.
.RE
.SH MODES
Only connection mode
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7),
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_DATA_IND (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
