'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: W_STATUS.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: W_STATUS.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:42  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH L_LINKENABLE 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B L_LINKENABLE, L_LINKDISABLE
\- enable a subnetwork (link) identifier
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/ll_control.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", L_LINKENABLE, ... /* " arg " */);"
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", L_LINKDISABLE, ... /* " arg " */);"
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream providing the LLI interface.
.TP
.I cmd
either
.B L_LINKENABLE
or
.BR L_LINKDISABLE .
.TP
.I arg
is a pointer to an
.BR ll_hdioc (5)
structure containing or to contain the subnetwork identifier.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR L_LINKENABLE " and " L_LINKDISABLE
command enables or disable the subnetwork (link) identifier associated with a
link that provides the
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)",
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
input-output control interface.
The argument,
.IR arg ,
is a pointer to an
.BR ll_hdioc (5)
structure that contains the subnetwork (link) identifier to enable for the
\fB\)L_LINKENABLE\fP command or the structure that contains the subnetwork
(link) identifier to disable for the \fB\)L_LINKDISABLE\fP command.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon success, the
.BR L_LINKENABLE " and " L_LINKDISABLE
.BR ioctl (2s)
command return zero.
Upon failure, the commands return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.BR L_LINKENABLE " or " L_LINKDISABLE
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
does not specify a valid, open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not associated with a Stream.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4s).
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that does not support the
.BR L_LINKENABLE " or " L_LINKDISABLE
input-output control.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
is linked under a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
specifies a Stream that has closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
specifies a Stream that is a controlling terminal that has closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
received a hangup
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
specifies a controlling terminal, the calling process is not a member of the
foreground process group and is a member of an orphaned process group, or is
blocking
.RI { SIGTTIN }
signals.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
.I fd
is a controlling terminal, the calling process is a member of a background
process group and is not blocking
.RI { SIGTTIN }
or
.RI { SIGTTOU }
signals, and a
.RI { SIGTTIN }
or
.RI { SIGTTOU }
signal was sent.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out waiting for an acknowledgement from the driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
a negative acknowledgement
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
was received from the driver with no specified error.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the driver responded incorrectly (with a well formed
.BR M_COPYIN (9)
or
.BR M_COPYOUT (9)
message.)
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, if
.I fd
receives an error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message, containing a persistent read error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.
.PP
If
.I fd
receives an error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message, containing only a persistent write error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.  If the
.B SNDPIPE
write option is set for the Stream, the calling process will also be sent a
.RI { SIGPIPE }
signal.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The operation requires that the driver send a positive
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
or negative
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
acknowledgement.
If a negative
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
acknowledgement message is received that contains an error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The input-output control commands provided by the
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
are not standardized, but are used by a wide range of X.25 implementations
based on
.IR "SpiderX25" .
.[
spiderx25
.]
These input-output control commands should be avoided by portable programs.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ll_hdioc (5),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.BR L_LINKENABLE " and " L_LINKDISABLE
input-output control commands have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.BR L_LINKENABLE " and " L_LINKDISABLE
input-output control commands are compatible with
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Not all implementations support the
.BR L_LINKENABLE " and " L_LINKDISABLE
input-output control commands.
.IP \(em
There are some variations in the implementation of the
.BR ll_hdioc (5)
structure.
.IP \(em
Source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR lapb (4),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR ll_hdioc (5),
.BR lli (7),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
interface was never standardized.  However,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR SpiderX25 ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
and
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I LLI
first appeared in
.IR SpiderX25 .
.[
spiderx25
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
