'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_ERROR_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008/07/08 16:57:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CD_ERROR_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008/07/08 16:57:30  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-07-01 12:06:35  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-06-18 16:45:32  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:53  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_ERROR_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_ERROR_IND
\- error indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_errno;
    cd_ulong cd_explanation;
} cd_error_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This provider originated primitives indicates that an asynchronous error has
occured and indicates the error number and new state of the CD provider.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Indicates the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_state
Indicates the state of the CD provider following the
.BR CD_ERROR_IND .
.I cd_state
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'[\fBCD_LAN_COLLISIONS\fP]\(em'u
.B CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.
.PD 0
.TP
.B CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of enable req.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.
.TP
.B CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.
.TP
.B CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of disable req.
.TP
.B CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.
.TP
.B CD_XRAY
Xray-ing another ppa.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I cd_errno
Indicates the reason for the error.
.I cd_errno
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
.\"Invalid disposal parameter.
.TP \w'[\fBCD_LAN_COLLISIONS\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
Defective SDU received.
.PD 0
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
.\"Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DISC ]
Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
.\"Primitive not supported by this device.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
.\"Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
.\"M_PROTO block too short.
.TP
.RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.TP
.RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
Unitdata request failed.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I cd_explanation
Indicates a further explanation of the error.  When \fIcd_errno\fP is
[\fBCD_SYSERR\fP], this field contains the UNIX system error as described in
\fIerrno\fP(3).  Otherwise, \fIcd_explanation\fP may contain one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP \w'[\fBCD_LAN_COLLISIONS\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ CD_CRCERR ]
CRC or FCS error.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ CD_DLE_EOT ]
DLE EOT detected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FORMAT ]
Format error detected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_HDLC_ABORT ]
Aborted frame detected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OVERRUN ]
Input overrun.
.TP
.RB [ CD_TOOSHORT ]
Frame too short.
.TP
.RB [ CD_INCOMPLETE ]
Partial frame received.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BUSY ]
Telephone was busy.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOANSWER ]
Connection went unanswered.
.TP
.RB [ CD_CALLREJECT ]
Connection rejected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_HDLC_IDLE ]
HDLC line went idle.
.TP
.RB [ CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE ]
HDLC line no longer idle.
.TP
.RB [ CD_QUIESCENT ]
Line being reassigned.
.TP
.RB [ CD_RESUMED ]
Line has been reassigned.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DSRTIMEOUT ]
Did not see DSR in time.
.TP
.RB [ CD_LAN_COLLISIONS ]
LAN excessive collisions.
.TP
.RB [ CD_LAN_REFUSED ]
LAN message refused.
.TP
.RB [ CD_LAN_NOSTATION ]
LAN no such station.
.TP
.RB [ CD_LOSTCTS ]
Lost Clear to Send signal.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DEVERR ]
Start of device-specific codes.
.PD
.PP
In addition, when the explanation is [\fBCD_DEVERR\fP] or greater, the
explanation may be a device-specific explanation code.
.RE
.SS State
This primitive is valid in any state where data transmission is valid.  The
new state is indicated in the primitive.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
