'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-06-18 16:45:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-06-18 16:45:33  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:53  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_BIND_REQ (dl_bind_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider bind a DLSAP to the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_sap;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_max_conind;
    ushort       dl_service_mode;
    ushort       dl_conn_mgmt;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_xidtest_flg;
} dl_bind_req_t;
\f(CW\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_BIND_REQ
requests the DLS provider bind a DLSAP to the stream.  The DLS user must
identify the address of the DLSAP to be bound to the stream.
Forconnection-mode service, the DLS user also indicates whether it will accept
incoming connection requests on the stream.  Finally, the request directs the
DLS provider to activate the stream associated with the DLSAP.
.PP
A stream is viewed as active when the DLS provider may transmit and receive
protocol data units destined to or originating from the stream.  The PPA
associated with each stream must be initialized upon completion of the
processing of the
.B DL_BIND_REQ
(see PPA Initialization/De-initialization
.BR dlpi (7)).
More specifically, the DLS user is ensured that the PPA is initialized
when the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)
is received.  If the PPA cannot be initialized, the
.B DL_BIND_REQ
will fail.
.PP
DLPI supports the ability to associate several Streams with a single DLSAP,
where each Stream may be a unique data link connection endpoint.  However, not
all DLS providers can support such configurations because some DLS providers may
have no mechanism beyond the DLSAP address for distinguishing multiple
connections.  In such cases, the provider will restrict the DLS user to one
Stream per DLSAP.
.PP
In some instances it is expected that a given service may be accessed thorugh
any one of several DLSAPs.  To handle this scenario, a separate Stream would be
required for each possible destination DLSAP, regardless of whether any DLS user
actually requested a connection to that DLSAP.  To obviate the need for tying up
system resource for all possible destination DLSAPs, a \(lqconnection
management stream\(rq utility is defined in DLPI.  A connection management
Stream is one that receives any connect requests that are not destined for
currently bound DLSAPs apable of receiving connect indications.  With this
mechanism, a special listener management Stream to the DLS provider that will
retrieve all connect requests arriving through a particular PPA.  In the model,
then, there may be a connection management Stream per PPA.
.PP
A stream may be bound as a "connection management" stream, such that it will
receive all connect requests that arrive through a given PPA (see
Connection Management Stream
.BR dlpi (7)).
In this case, the
.I dl_sap
will be ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The
.B dl_bind_req_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_BIND_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_sap
conveys sufficient information to identify the DLSAP that will be bound to
the DLPI stream (see DLPI Addressing
.BR dlpi (7)
for a description of DLSAP
addresses).  The format of this information is specific to a given DLS
provider, and may contain the full DLSAP address or some portion of that
address sufficient to uniquely identify the DLSAP in question.  The full
address of the bound DLSAP will be returned in the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.RS
.PP
The following rules are used by the DLS provider when binding a DLSAP address:
.IP - 3
The DLS provider must define and manage its DLSAP address space.
.IP -
DLPI allows the same DLSAP to be bound to multiple streams, but a given DLS
provider may need to restrict its address space to allow one stream per DLSAP.
.IP -
The DLS provider may not be able to bind the specified DLSAP address for one
of the following reasons:
.RS
.IP "1." 4
the DLS provider may statically associate a specific DLSAP with each
stream
.IP 2.
the DLS provider may only support one stream per DLSAP and the DLS user
attempted to bind a DLSAP that was already bound to another stream.
.PP
In case of reason 1, the value of
.I dl_sap
is ignored by the DLS provider
and the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)
returns the DLSAP address that is already associated with
the stream.  In case of reason 2, if the DLS provider cannot bind the given
DLSAP to the stream, it may attempt to choose an alternate DLSAP and
return that on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
If an alternate DLSAP cannot be chosen, the
DLS provider will return a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
and set
.I dl_errno
to
.BR DL_NOADDR .
.RE
.PP
Because of the provider-specific nature of the DLSAP address, DLS user
software that is to be protocol independent should avoid hard-coding this
value.  The DLS user should retrieve the necessary DLSAP address from some
other entity (such as a management entity or higher layer protocol entity)
and insert it without inspection into the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ .
.RE
.TP
.I dl_max_conind
conveys the maximum number of outstanding
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
messages
allowed on the DLPI stream.  If the value is zero, the stream cannot accept
any
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
messages.  If greater than zero, the DLS user will accept
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
messages up to the given value before having to
respond with a
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7)
or a
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
(see Multi-threaded Connection Establishment
.BR dlpi (7)
for details on how this value is used to support multi-threaded connect
processing).  The DLS provider may not be able to support the value supplied in
.IR dl_max_conind ,
as specified by the following rules:
.RS
.IP - 3
If the provider cannot support the specified number of outstanding
connect indications, it should set the value down to a number it can support.
.IP -
Only one stream that is bound to the indicated DLSAP may have an allowed
number of maximum outstanding connect indications greater than zero.  If a
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
specifies a value greater than zero, but another stream has already bound
itself to the DLSAP with a value greater than zero, the DLS provider will fail
the request, setting
.I dl_errno
to
.B DL_BOUND
on the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.IP -
If a stream with
.I dl_max_conind
greater than zero is used to accept a connection, the stream will be found
busy during the duration of the connection, and no other streams may be bound
to the same DLSAP with a value
of
.I dl_max_conind
greater than zero.  This restriction prevents more than one stream bound to
the same DLSAP from receiving connect indications and accepting connections.
Accepting a connection on such a stream is only allowed if there is just a
single outstanding connect indication being processed.
.IP -
A DLS user should always be able to request a
.I dl_max_conind
value of zero, since this indicates to the DLS provider that the stream will
only be used to originate connect requests.
.IP -
A stream with a negotiated value of
.I dl_max_conind
that is greater than zero may not originate connect requests.  This field is
ignored in connectionless-mode service.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_service_mode
conveys the desired mode of service for this stream, and may contain one of
the following:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CODLS
Selects connection-oriented data link service only.  The connection-oriented
mode primitives will be accepted.  In addition, an arbitrary number of streams
may bind to the same
.I dl_sap
on the same PPA provided the
.I dl_max_conind
is zero.  Only one Stream may bind to the same
.I dl_sap
on the same PPA when the
.I dl_max_conind
is non-zero.
No incoming connectionless traffic will be sent up this Stream, and will be
routed to a
.B DL_CLDLS
Stream, or discarded.
.TP
.B DL_CLDLS
Selects connectionless data link service only.  The connection-oriented mode
primitives will not be accepted.  This mode selects exclusive control of
connectionless traffic.  All connectionless traffic from any remote station
address to this
.I dl_sap
even if another Stream is currently connected on the same
.IR dl_sap .
Only one stream per PPA may bind
.BR DL_CLDLS .
.TP
.BR DL_CLDLS | DL_CODLS
Selects the connection-oriented mode service augmented with connectionless mode
service.  An arbitrary number of Streams may bind to the same
.I dl_sap
on the same interface.  This mode is mutually exclusive with Streams bound with
.BR DL_CLDLS .
.TP
.B DL_ACLDLS
Selects the acknowledged connectionless data link service only.  The same
restrictions that apply to the connectionless mode service apply to this
service.
.TP
.BR DL_ACLDLS | DL_CLDLS
Selects the acknowledged connectionless data link service augmented with the
connectionless mode service.  The same restrictions that apply to the
connectionless mode service apply to this combined service.
.TP
.B DL_HP_RAWDLS
Selects raw-mode service.
.PP
If the DLS provider does not support the requested service mode, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
will be generated, specifying
.BR DL_UNSUPPORTED .
.RE
.TP
.I dl_conn_mgmt
if non-zero, indicates that the stream is the "connection management"
stream for the PPA to which the stream is attached.  When an incoming connect
request arrives, the DLS provider will first look for a stream bound with
.I dl_max_conind
greater than zero that is associated with the destination DLSAP.  If such a
stream is found, the connect indication will be issued on that stream.
Otherwise, the DLS provider will issue the connect indication on the
"connection management" stream for that PPA, if one exists.  Only one
"connection management" stream is allowed per PPA, so an attempt to bind a
second connection management stream on a PPA will fail with the DLPI error set
to
.BR DL_BOUND .
When
.I dl_conn_mgmt
is non-zero, the
value of
.I dl_sap
will be ignored.  In connectionless-mode service,
.I dl_conn_mgmt
is ignored by the DLS provider.
.TP
.I dl_xidtest_flg
indicates to the DLS Provider that XID and/or TEST responses for this
stream are to be automatically generated by the DLS Provider.  The DLS
Provider will not generate
.BR DL_XID_IND (7)
and/or
.BR DL_TEST_IND (7),
and will error a
.BR DL_XID_REQ (7)
and/or
.BR DL_TEST_REQ (7).
If the DLS Provider does not support automatic handling of XID and/or TEST
responses, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
will be generated, specifying
.BR DL_NOAUTO ", " DL_NOXIDAUTO " or " DL_NOTESTAUTO .
If the Provider receives an XID or TEST request from the DLS User, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
will be generated specifying
.BR DL_XIDAUTO " or " DL_TESTAUTO
respectively.
.RS
.PP
The dl_xidtest_flg contains a bit-mask specifying zero or more of the
following values:
.TP
.B DL_AUTO_XID
automatically respond to XID commands
.TP
.B DL_AUTO_TEST
automatically respond to TEST commands.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_UNBOUND .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_BIND_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the bind request is successful,
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user
resulting in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.PP
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting
state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The DLPI error returned in a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive may be one of the following:
.TP 16
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested
DLSAP address.
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The DLSAP address information was invalid or was in an incorrect
format.
.TP
.B DL_BOUND
The DLS user attempted to bind a second stream to a DLSAP with
.I dl_max_conind
greater than zero, or the DLS user attempted to bind a second
"connectionmanagement" stream to a PPA.
.TP
.B DL_INITFAILED
Automatic initialization of the PPA failed.
.TP
.B DL_NOTINIT
The PPA had not been initialized prior to this request.
.TP
.B DL_NOADDR
The DLS provider could not allocate a DLSAP address for this stream.
.TP
.B DL_NOAUTO
Automatic handling of XID and TEST responses not supported.
.TP
.B DL_NOTESTAUTO
Automatic handling of TEST response not supported.
.TP
.B DL_NOXIDAUTO
Automatic handling of XID response not supported.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
The DLS provider does not support requested service mode on this stream.
.PP
See
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
for a description of specific Linux error codes applicable to DLPI.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_BIND_REQ
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B DL_HP_RAWDLS
value for the
.I dl_service_mode
field is
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
and will be ignored by portable DLS Users.
.\"
.IP \(em
When specified, the
.B DL_HP_RAWDLS
value for the
.I dl_service_mode
field requests that the DLS Provider place the Stream in a raw mode of
operation.
See also,
.BR DL_HP_RAWDATA_REQ "(7) and " DL_HP_RAWDATA_IND (7).
.\"
.IP \(em
.B DL_HP_RAWDLS
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR HP-UX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
documents the UNIX error codes (listed as Linux error codes above).  Other
implementations do not document these codes.  Portable programs will not rely
upon the specific value of a Linux error code for proper operation.
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
provides a connectionless-only DLPI driver for LAN classes, and for this
provider the
.I dl_service_mode
must be set to
.BR DL_CLDLS .
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
provides a connection-oriented only DLPI driver for LLC2 and LAPB classes, and
for this provider the
.I dl_service_mode
must be set to
.BR DL_CODLS .
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
provide a combined connectionless and connection-oriented DLPI driver for LAN,
LLC2 and LAPB classes.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a connectionless only DLPI driver for LAN classes,
.BR ldl (4),
a combined connectionless and connection-oriented DLPI driver for LLC2 and
LAPB,
.BR llc2 (4)
and
.BR lapb (4),
and is, therefore, compatible with all three implementations.
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
specifies that the
.I dl_sap
field contains a one-byte, non-zero, individual SSAP for LLC2, and zero (0) for
LAPB.  Also, it notes that multiple Streams may be bound to the same SAP, but
only one listening Stream is allowed per SAP.
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixcpc
.]
documents that for LLC2 operation, this is an LSAP an cannot be the null SAP
(0x00), a group SAP (B'XXXXXXX1'), the name discovery SAP (0xFC), nor the
gloabl SAP (0xFF).  Also that the value is 0 for master and 1 for slave for
SDLC operation.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports a one-byte, non-zero, individual LSAP for LLC2, and any LSAP for LLC1.
Also supported is a two-byte Ethertype (>1536 decimal) for DL_CLDS on LAN
media.  Portable applications will set this value to zero (0) when LSAP
addressing is not required.
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
specifies that the
.I dl_conn_mgmt
field is ignored.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
honors the setting of this field.  When porting applications from
.IR AIX \(rg,
care should be taken that this field is always set to zero (0).
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
expands on the description of combined service modes as described for the
.I dl_service_mode
field above.
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
document that service mode field,
.I dl_service_mode
may only be single-valued.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports multiple values in the
.I dl_service_mode
field in support for porting applications from
.IR AIX \(rg.
Programs ported from
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and other implementations strictly based on DLPI will simply not set multiple
values in this field.
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
states that the
.I dl_xidtest_flg
is only valid for LLC2.
Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
the
.I dl_xidtest_flg
field is valid for all providers and service modes.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixx25
.]
states that for LAPB the
.I dl_sap
byte 1 is 1 for master station and 0 for slave station and byte 2 contains the
logical line number, and bytes 3 and 4 contain zero (0), where byte 1 is the
most significant byte of the 
.B ulong
and byte 4 is the least significant.
It also indicates that
.IR dl_max_conind ", " dl_service_mode ", " dl_conn_mgmt " and " dl_xidtest_flg
must all be set to zero.
.RS
To support porting of
.IR AIX \(rg
applications to
.IR Linux \(rg,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also support this SAP addressing (as well as supporting the value zero (0) in
the
.I dl_service_mode
for LAPB).
.RE
.\"
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
