'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_CAPABILITY_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-06-18 16:45:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_CAPABILITY_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-06-18 16:45:33  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:53  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CAPABILITY_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (dl_capability_ack_t)
\- acknowledges control capablities of underlying driver
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define _SUN_SOURCE
#include <sys/dlpi.h>
#include <sys/dlpi_sun.h>

typedef struct {
    dl_ulong dl_primitive;
    dl_ulong dl_sub_offset;
    dl_ulong dl_sub_length;
} dl_capability_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
is an acknowledgement of the capability control request,
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7),
primitive that requests information or control of the capabilities of the
underlying driver.  The
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive is issued by the DLS provider in response to a successful capability
control request invoked with a
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK .
.TP
.IR dl_sub_offset ", " dl_sub_length
The length (in bytes) and offset (in bytes) from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block of the sub-capability structures.
.PP
Each of the sub-capability structures is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_cap;
    t_uscalar_t dl_length;
    char dl_data[0];
    /* followed by zero or more bytes of dl_data */
} dl_capability_sub_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Where the fields are formatted as described in detail on the
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules are followed by the DLS provider when issuing a
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive in response to a successful
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
primitive:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
When the
.I dl_sub_length
field is zero (0) in the corresponding
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
primitive, the DLS provide is to assemble all supported sub-capabilities from
the driver and issue a
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive containing each capability and its current corresponing value.
.IP 2.
When the
.IR dl_sub_length " and " dl_sub_offset
fields are non-zero, the
.IR dl_sub_length " and " dl_sub_offset
fields describe an extent that contains an array of
.B dl_capability_sub_t
structure.  Each
.B dl_capability_sub_t
structure in the
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
primitive can have a
.I dl_length
field that is zero (0), or the length of the data structure corresponding to
the capability identified in the
.I dl_cap
field.
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the
.I dl_length
field is zero (0), it specifies that no value is associated with the capability
and the value of the capabilty, when supported, is to be returned by the DLS
provider in the
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive.
.IP \(bu
When the
.I dl_length
field is non-zero (0), it sepcifies that that value is to be associated with
the capability (i.e., set against the capability) and the value of the
capability, when supported, is to be set or negotiated by the DLS provider and
is to be returned by the DSL provider in the
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive.
.RE
.IP 3.
When an error occurs, the DLS provider is required to return a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive instead of a
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
.PP
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in any state other than state
.B DL_UNATTACHED ,
and then only in response to a corresponding
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _SUN_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file,
or it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/dlpi_sun.h >
header file,
to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CONTROL_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CONTROL_ACK (7),
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
is compatibible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_ACK
was first documented in
.IR Solaris \(rg .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2

