'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_CLR_SR_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-06-18 16:43:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:43:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_CLR_SR_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-18 16:43:15  brian
.\" - added new files for NLI and DLPI
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CLR_SR_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ (dl_clr_sr_req_t)
\- clear source routing table request
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9(
message block, which contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define _UW7_SOURCE
#include <sys/dlpi.h>
#include <sys/scodlpi.h>
#include <sys/sr.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
} dl_attach_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
requests that the DLS provider clear all entries from the source routing table.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The
.B dl_clr_sr_req_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CLR_SR_REQ .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any state other than
.BR DL_UNATTACHED ,
but only when local acknowledgement of a request or response primitive is not
pending for the requesting Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state
remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the attach request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user.
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
One of the following errors may be returned in the
.B DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive:
.TP
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the primitive.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_BADPRIM
The primitive is not known to the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
The primitive is known to, but not supported by, the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.PP
See
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
for a description of specific Linux error codes applicable to DLPI.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _UW7_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/scodlpi.h >
and
.RB < sys/sr.h>
header files to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR DL_\%ERROR_\%ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
is compatibible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents the primitive types to be
.B ulong
rather than
.BR t_uscalar_t .
This is likely an error that is consistent with versions of the DLPI before Revision 2.0.0.
Under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
all primitives are of type
.BR dl_ulong ,
which is a 32-bit unsigned integer value on all architectures.
The DLPI standard uses
.BR t_uscalar_t ,
which is at least a 32-bit unsigned integer.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not support the
.B DL_UNATTACHED
state.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not document any DLPI errors other than
.BR DL_NOTSUPPORTED .
.IP \(em
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR UnixWare \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
and
.BR dlpi (7),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_CLR_SR_REQ
was first documented in
.IR UnixWare \(rg .
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
