'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_CAPABILITY_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-07-01 12:06:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:06:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_CAPABILITY_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-07-01 12:06:35  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-06-18 16:45:33  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CAPABILITY_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ (dl_capability_req_t)
\- control capabilties of underlying driver
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define _SUN_SOURCE
#include <sys/dlpi.h>
#include <sys/dlpi_sun.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_sub_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_sub_length;
} dl_capability_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
is used both to determine the set of capabilities in the DLS provider and also
and to turn on an off specific capabilities.  The response is a
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
or
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
can either be empty (i.e.,
.I dl_sub_length
is zero) which is a request to return all capabilities.  Otherwise, the
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
contains the capabilities the DLS user wants to use and their settings.
.PP
A returned
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
primitive will contain the capabilities that the DLS provider can support
modified based on the what was listed in the request.  If a capability was
included in the request, then the information returned inthe acknowledgement
might be modified based on information in the request.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_REQ .
.TP
.IR dl_sub_length ", " dl_sub_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block of the sub-capability structures.
.PP
Each of the sub-capability structures is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_cap;
    t_uscalar_t dl_length;
    char dl_data[0];
    /* followed by zero or more bytes of dl_data */
} dl_capability_sub_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Where the
.B dl_capability_sub_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I dl_cap
The capability represented.  This field can have values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_ID_WRAPPR
Module ID wrapper structure.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_HCKSUM
Hardware checksum offload.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AH
IPsec AH acceleration.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ESP
IPsec ESP acceleration.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_MDT
Multidata transmit capability.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_ZEROCOPY
Zero-copy capability.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_POLL
Polling capability.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_SOFT_RING
Soft ring capable.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_LSO
Large send offload (LSO) capability.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_length
Specifies the length of the data portion of the message.  When set to zero
(0), it specifies that there is not data portion associated with the
capability.  In this case, values are only retrieved for the capability and
are not set.  When non-zero, it has the length of the structure associated
with the capability value present in the
.BR dl_cap
field.
.TP
.I dl_data
Either empty or contains the controls the data structure associated with the
corresponding
.I dl_cap
field value.
.\"
.SS Module Id Wrapper
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_ID_WRAPPR ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_id_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    dl_mid_t id_mid;
    dl_capability_sub_t id_subcap;
} dl_capab_id_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_id_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I id_mid
Module ID token.
This is the module ID of the module for which the contained sub-capability is
addressed.  The Module ID wrapper capability may required privilege.
.TP
.I id_subcap
Sub-capability.
This is the sub-capability that is one of the other capabilties defined for
the
.I dl_cap
field.  It is unclear whether a Module ID Wrapper can, in turn, contain
another Module Id Wrapper.
.\"
.SS Hardware Checksum
.PP
This set of capabilities address the ability of the underlying driver to
perform various forms of checksumming in hardware, thus providing the ability
to offload checksumming from the host to the device.
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_HCKSUM ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_hcksum_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t hcksum_version;
    t_uscalar_t hcksum_txflags;
    dl_mid_t hcksum_mid;
} dl_capab_hcksum_t;
.\"
.\"#define HCKSUM_CURRENT_VERSION  0x01
.\"#define HCKSUM_VERSION_1        0x01
.\"
.\"#define HCKSUM_ENABLE           0x01
.\"#define HCKSUM_INET_PARTIAL     0x02
.\"#define HCKSUM_INET_FULL_V4     0x04
.\"#define HCKSUM_IPDHRCHKSUM      0x10
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_hcksum_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I hcksum_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B HCKSUM_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the hardware checksum capability.
.TP
.B HCKSUM_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the hardware checksum capability.
.RE
.TP
.I hcksum_txflags
Capabilities on transmit.
.RS
.TP
.B HCKSUM_ENABLE
Set to enable hardware checksum capability; when clear, hardware checksum
capability is disabled.
.TP
.B HCKSUM_INET_PARTIAL
Partial one's complement checksum ability.
.TP
.B HCKSUM_INET_FULL_V4
Full one's complement checksum ability for IPv4 packets.
.TP
.B HCKSUM_INET_FULL_V6
Full one's complement checksum ability for IPv6 packets.
.TP
.B HCKSUM_IPDHRCHKSUM
IPv4 header checksum offload capability.
.RE
.TP
.I hcksum_mid
Module ID token.
.\"
.SS IPsec AH or ESP Acceleration
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AH " or " DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ESP ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_ipsec_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t cip_version;
    t_uscalar_t cip_nciphers;
    dl_capab_ipsec_alg_t cip_data[1];
} dl_capabl_ipsec_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_ipsec_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I cip_version
Specifies the capability interface versoin for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B IPSEC_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the IPSec AH or ESP acceleration capability.
.TP
.B IPSEC_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the IPSec AH or ESP acceleration capability.
.RE
.TP
.I cip_nciphers
The number of ciphers in the
.I cip_data
portion of the message.
.TP
.I cip_data
An array of
.I cip_nciphers
elements, each containing a
.B dl_capab_ipsec_alg_t
structure describing one cipher (encryption or authentication cipher).
The
.B dl_capab_ipsec_alg_t
structure is formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t alg_type;
    t_uscalar_t alg_prim;
    t_uscalar_t alg_thruput;
    t_uscalar_t alg_flag;
    t_uscalar_t alg_minbits;
    t_uscalar_t alg_maxbits;
    t_uscalar_t alg_incrbits;
} dl_capab_ipsec_alg_t;
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_AUTH       0x01
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_ENCR       0x02
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_DES       0x02
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_3DES      0x03
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_BLOWFISH  0x04
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_NULL      0x0b
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_AES       0x0c
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_NONE      0x00
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_MD5HMAC   0x02
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_SHA1HMAC  0x03
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_ALG_ENABLE           0x01
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_ipsec_alg_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I alg_type
Specifies the type of the algorithm.  This can be one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_AUTH
The algorithm is an authentication algorithm.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_ENCR
The algorithm is an encryption algorithm.
.RE
.TP
.I alg_prim
Specifies or indicates the algorithm primitive form.  This field uses a
different set of values depending on the value of
.I alg_type
as follows:
.RS
.PP
When the
.I alg_type
is
.BR DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_ENCR ,
.I alg_prim
can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_NULL
No encryption.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_DES
Encryption using DES.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_3DES
Encryption using triple-DES.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_BLOWFISH
Encryption using Blowfish.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ENCR_AES
Encryption using AES.
.PP
When the
.I alg_type
is
.BR DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_ALG_AUTH ,
.I alg_prim
can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_NONE
No authentication.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_MD5HMAC
Authentication using MD5 HMAC.
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_IPSEC_AUTH_SHA1HMAC
Authentication using SHA1 HMAC.
.RE
.TP
.I alg_thruput
Specifies the throughput capability of the accelerated algortihm.
.TP
.I alg_flag
Indicates the capability flags associated with this algorithm.
.I alg_flag
can contain zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_ALG_ENABLE
.RE
.TP
.I alg_minbits
Indicates the shortest key length for this algorithm in bits.
.TP
.I alg_maxbits
Indicates the longest key length for this algorithm in bits.
.TP
.I alg_incrbits
Indicates the increment that can be added to
.I alg_minbits
until
.I alg_maxbits
that specifies valid key lengths intermediate to 
.IR alg_minbits " and " alg_maxbits .
.RE
.\"
.SS Multi-Data Transmit
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_MDT ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a multidata transmit sub-capability,
.B dl_capab_mdt_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t mdt_version;
    t_uscalar_t mdt_flags;
    t_uscalar_t mdt_hdr_head;
    t_uscalar_t mdt_hdr_tail;
    t_uscalar_t mdt_max_pld;
    t_uscalar_t mdt_span_limit;
    dl_mid_t mdt_mid;
} dl_capab_mdt_t;
.\"
.\"#define MDT_CURRENT_VERSION	0x02
.\"#define MDT_VERSION_2		0x02
.\"#define MDT_VERSION_1		0x01
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_MDT_ENABLE	0x01
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_mdt_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I mdt_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B MDT_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the multidata transmit capability.
.TP
.B MDT_VERSION_2
Version 2 of the multidata transmit capability.
.TP
.B MDT_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the multidata transmit capability.
.RE
.TP
.I mdt_flags
Flags.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_MDT_ENABLE
Enable multidata transmit.
.RE
.TP
.I mdt_hdr_head
Minimum leading header space.
.TP
.I mdt_hdr_tail
Minimum trailing header space.
.TP
.I mdt_max_pld
Maximum double payload buffers.
.TP
.I mdt_span_limit
Scatter-gatter descriptor limit.
.TP
.I mdt_mid
Module ID token.
.\"
.SS Zero-Copy
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_ZEROCOPY ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_zerocopy_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t zerocopy_version;
    t_uscalar_t zerocopy_flags;
    t_uscalar_t reservved[9];
    dl_mid_t zerocopy_mid;
} dl_capab_zerocopy_t;
.\"
.\"#define ZEROCOPY_CURRENT_VERSION  0x01
.\"#define ZEROCOPY_VERSION_1        0x01
.\"
.\"#define DL_CAPAB_VMSAFE_MEM       0x01
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The members of the
.B dl_capab_zerocopy_t
structure are as follows:
.TP
.I zerocopy_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B ZEROCOPY_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the zero copy capability.
.TP
.B ZEROCOPY_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the zero copy capability.
.RE
.TP
.I zerocopy_flags
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CAPAB_VMSAFE_MEM
When set, specifies that the driver is zero-copy safe with respect to virtual
memory named buffers.
.RE
.TP
.I zerocopy_mid
.\"
.SS Polling
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_POLL ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_dls_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct dl_capab_dls_s {
    t_uscalar_t dls_version;
    t_uscalar_t dls_flags;
.\"    /* DLD provided information */
    uintptr_t dls_tx_handle;
    uintptr_t dls_tx;
    uintptr_t dls_ring_change_status;
    uintptr_t dls_ring_bind;
    uintptr_t dls_ring_unbind;
.\"    /* IP provided information */
    uintptr_t dls_rx_handle;
    uintptr_t dls_ring_assign;
    uintptr_t dls_rx;
    uintptr_t dls_ring_add;
    t_uscalar_t dls_ring_cnt;
.\"    /* Module ID */
    dl_mid_t dls_mid;
} dl_capab_dls_t;
.\"
.\"#define POLL_CURRENT_VERSION   0x01
.\"#define POLL_VERSION_1         0x01
.\"
.\"#define POLL_ENABLE            0x01
.\"#define POLL_CAPABLE           0x02
.\"#define POLL_DISABLE           0x03
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dl_capab_dls_t
structure is used by
.B DL_CAPAB_POLL
and
.B DL_CAPAB_SOFT_RING
capabilities.  It provides a mechanism for IP to exchange function pointers
with a gldv3-based driver to enable it to bypass streams data paths.  The
.B DL_CAPAB_POLL
mechanism provides a mechanism to create soft ring at the dls layer.
.PP
The members of the
.B dl_capab_dls_t
structure are as follows:
.TP
.I dls_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B POLL_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the poll capability.
.TP
.B POLL_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the poll capability.
.RE
.TP
.I dls_flags
.RS
.TP
.B POLL_ENABLE
.TP
.B POLL_CAPABLE
.TP
.B POLL_DISABLE
.RE
.TP
.I dls_tx_handle
.TP
.I dls_tx
.TP
.I dls_ring_change_status
.TP
.I dls_ring_bind
.TP
.I dls_ring_unbind
.TP
.I dls_rx_handle
.TP
.I dls_ring_assign
.TP
.I dls_rx
.TP
.I dls_ring_add
.TP
.I dls_ring_cnt
.TP
.I dls_mid
.\"
.SS Soft Ring
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_SOFT_RING ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.B dl_capab_dls_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.\"#define SOFT_RING_CURRENT_VERSION  0x01
.\"#define SOFT_RING_VERSION_1        0x01
.\"
.\"#define SOFT_RING_ENABLE           0x04
.\"#define SOFT_RING_CAPABLE          0x05
.\"#define SOFT_RING_DISABLE          0x06
.\"
.\"#define SOFT_RING_NONE             0x00
.\"#define SOFT_RING_FANOUT           0x01
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The members of the
.B dl_capab_dls_t
structure are as follows:
See
.BR DL_CAPAB_POLL ,
above.
.TP
.I dls_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the soft ring capability.
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the soft ring capability.
.RE
.TP
.I dls_flags
Interface flags.
.RS
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_ENABLE
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_CAPABLE
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_DISABLE
.RE
.TP
.I dls_ring_change_status
Ring status change information.
.RS
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_NONE
.TP
.B SOFT_RING_FANOUT
.RE
.\"
.SS Large Send Offload
.PP
When
.I dl_cap
is set to
.BR DL_CAPAB_LSO ,
.I dl_length
is non-zero,
.I dl_data
contains a
.BR dl_capab_lso_t
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t lso_version;
    t_uscalar_t lso_flags;
    t_uscalar_t lso_max;
    t_uscalar_t reserved[1];
    dl_mid_t lso_mid;
} dl_capab_lso_t;
.\"
.\"#define LSO_CURRENT_VERSION     0x01
.\"#define LSO_VERSION_1           0x01
.\"
.\"#define LSO_TX_ENABLE           0x01
.\"#define LSO_TX_BASIC_TCP_IPV4   0x02
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The members of the
.B dl_capab_lso_t
structure are as follows:
.TP
.I lso_version
Specifies the capability interface version for the data following.
.RS
.TP
.B LSO_CURRENT_VERSION
The current version of the large send offload capability.
.TP
.B LSO_VERSION_1
Version 1 of the large send offload capability.
.RE
.TP
.I lso_flags
Capability flags.
.RS
.TP
.B LSO_TX_ENABLE
Set to enable LSO, clear to disable.
.TP
.B LSO_TX_BASIC_TCP_IPV4
TCP LSO capability.
.RE
.TP
.I lso_max
Maximum payload.
.TP
.I lso_mid
Module ID.
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules are followed concerning the issuing of and response to the
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
primitive:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
When the
.IR dl_sub_length
field is zero (0) in the request, the DLS provider is to assemble all
supported capabilities from the driver and issue a
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
message containing each capability and its current corresponding value.
.IP 2.
When the
.IR dl_sub_length
field is non-zero, the
.IR dl_sub_length " and " dl_sub_offset
fields describe an extent that contains an array of
.BR dl_capability_sub_t
structures.
.IP 3.
Each
.B dl_capability_sub_t
structure in the request can have a
.IR dl_length
field that is either zero (0), or the length of the data
structure corresponding to the capability identified in the
.IR dl_cap
field.
.IP 4.
When the
.IR dl_length
field is zero (0), it specifies that no value is associated with the
capability and the value of the capability is to be returned in the
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
message.
.IP 5.
When the
.IR dl_length
field is non-zero, it specifies that the value is to be associated with the
capability (i.e., set against the capability) and the value of the capability
as set or negotiated is to be returned in the
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in any state other than state
.BR DL_UNATTACHED ,
or when a local acknowledgement is pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
If the request is successful,
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)
is issued to the DLS user.
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 16
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to make the request.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _SUN_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file,
or it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/dlpi_sun.h >
header file,
to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DL_CAPABILITY_ACK (7),
.BR DL_CONTROL_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CONTROL_ACK (7),
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document this primitive well.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IP \(em
Before attempting to use the features of the
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
primitive, the DLS user should issue a
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
primitive with the
.I dl_sub_length
field set to zero.  If the DLS provider response with a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with either the
.BR DL_BADPRIM " or " DL_NOTSUPPORTED
error number, the DLS provider does not recognize, or support, the primitive.
.IP \(em
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_CAPABILITY_REQ
was first documented in
.IR Solaris \(rg .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
