'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_CONNECT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.10 2008-07-01 12:06:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:06:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_CONNECT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-07-01 12:06:35  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-06-18 16:45:33  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/10/10 10:50:29  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:53  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CONNECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CONNECT_REQ (dl_connect_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider establish a data link connection with a
remote DLS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_growth;
} dl_connect_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_CONNECT_REQ
requests the DLS provider establish a data link connection with a remote DLS
user.  The request contains the DLSAP address of the remote (called) DLS user
and quality of service parameters to be negotiated during connection
establishment.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address that identifies the DLS user with whom
a connection is to be established.  If the called user is implemented using
DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP address returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the destination DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the length of the quality of service (QOS) parameter values
desired by the DLS user initiating a connection.  The desired QOS values
are conveyed in the appropriate structure defined in
.IR "\*(lqQOS Data Structures" . \*(rq
A full specification of these QOS parameters and rules for
negotiating their values is presented in
.IR "\*(lqQuality of Data Link Service" . \*(rq
If the DLS user does not wish to specify a particular QOS value, the value
.B DL_QOS_DONT_CARE
may be specified.  If the DLS user does not care to specify any QOS parameter
values, this field may be set to zero.
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the quality of service parameters begin.
.TP
.I dl_growth
defines a growth field for future enhancements to this primitive.  Its
value must be set to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_CODLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_OUTCON_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
There is no immediate response to the connect request.  However, if the
connect request is accepted by the called DLS user,
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
is sent to the calling DLS user, resulting in state
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
If the connect request is rejected by the called DLS user, the called DLS user
cannot be reached, or the DLS provider and/or called DLS user do not agree on
the specified quality of service, a
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
is sent to the calling DLS user, resulting in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
If the request is erroneous, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP 12
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested
DLSAP address.
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The destination DLSAP address was in an incorrect format or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSPARAM
The quality of service parameters contained invalid values.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSTYPE
The quality of service structure type was not supported by the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_CONNECT_REQ
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
does not support connection-oriented service mode directly.
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
only supports connection-oriented service mode.
.IP \(em
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
documents that LLC2 uses the 7-byte
.B llc_dladdr
structure for destination addresses and LAPB uses the 21-byte
.B pstnformat
structure for destination addresses (see
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)
for a description of these structures).
The LAPB
.B pstnformat
is only used for dial-up data link connections (i.e., LAPB over modem), and
then contains the dial string.
.RS
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
permits MAC+DSAP address formats for LLC2, but also permits MAC address (where
the DSAP is implied by the first bound LSAP).
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support addresses for LAPB and
.IR dl_dest_addr_length " and " dl_dest_addr_offset
must be set to zero (0).
.PP
For maximum compatibility,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
use MAC+DSAP formatting for LLC2 as
.IR Solstice \(rg
and
.IR AIX \(rg
where the DSAP is optional in the same manner as
.IR AIX \(rg.
It also supports
8-byte MAC addresses for token ring and the 21-byte
.B pstnformat
dial string for dial-up LAPB.  It also supports a less than 21-byte free
formatted dial string for LAPB (basically the
.B pstnformat
structure minus the length indicator and without including the length of
insiginificant octets).
.RE
.IP \(em
Neither
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.[
aixlink
.]
nor
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
support QOS parameters and both
.IR dl_qos_length " and " dl_qos_offset
must be zero (0).
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports OSI data link QOS parameters defined for DLPI,
.BR DL_QOS_CO_RANGE1 " and " DL_QOS_CO_SEL1 ,
where the range is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
primitives and the selection is used with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES "(7) and " DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitives.  The
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitive will not contain a selection unless the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive contained a range.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
