'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_DATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/22 15:29:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/22 15:29:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxns.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_DATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/22 15:29:53 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_DATA_REQ
\- conveys a complete DLSDU from the DLS user to the DLS provider for
transmission over the data link connection.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks containing at least one byte of data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
To simplify the support of a
.BR read (2)/ write (2)
interface to the data link layer, the DLS provider must recognize and process
messages that consist of one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks with non preceding
.B M_PROTO
message block.  This message type may originate from the
.BR write (2)
system call.
.PP
This does not imply that DLPI will directly support a pure
.BR read (2)/ write (2).
If such an interface is desired, a STREAMS module could be implemented to be
pushed above the DLS provider.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
If it is received in state
.BR DL_IDLE " or " DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING ,
it should be discarded without generating an error.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
If the request is valid, no response is generated.
.PP
If the request is erroneous, a STREAMS
.B M_ERROR
message should be issued to the DLS user specifying an
.IR errno (3)
value of
.BR EPROTO .
This action should be interpreted as a fatal, unrecoverable, protocol error.
A request is considered erroneous under the following conditions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.  If the request is issued in
state
.BR DL_IDLE " or " DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING ,
however,
it is silently discarded with no fatal error generated.
.IP \(em
The amount of data in the current DLSDU is not within the DLS provider's
acceptable bounds as spcified by
.IR dl_min_sdu " and " dl_max_sdu
in the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7).
.SH NOTES
A STREAMS module would implement "more" field processing itself to support
direct user-level access.  This module could collect messages and send them in
one larger message to the DLS provider, or break large DLSDUs passed to the
DLS user into smaller messages.  The module would only be pushed if the DLS
user was a user-level process.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
