'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_DISCONNECT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.9 2008-07-01 12:06:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:06:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_DISCONNECT_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-07-01 12:06:36  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-06-18 16:45:33  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:53  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_DISCONNECT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_DISCONNECT_IND (dl_disconnect_ind_t)
\- informs the DLS user that the data link connection on this stream has
been disconnected.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_originator;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_reason;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
} dl_disconnect_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_DISCONNECT_IND
informs the DLS user that the data link connection on this stream has
been disconnected, or that apending connection (either
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
or
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7))
has been aborted.  The primitive indicates the origin and the cause of the
disconnect.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND .
.TP
.I dl_originator
conveys whether the disconnect was DLS user or DLS provider originated
.RB ( DL_USER
or
.BR DL_PROVIDER ,
respectively).
.TP
.I dl_reason
conveys the reason for the disconnect:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_DISC_PERMANENT_CONDITION
connection released due to permanent condition
.TP
.B DL_DISC_TRANSIENT_CONDITION
connection released due to transient condition
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_DEST_UNKNOWN
unknown destination for connect request
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_DEST_UNREACH_PERMANENT
could not reach destination for connect request - permanent condition
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_DEST_UNREACH_TRANSIENT
could not reach destination for connect request - transient condition
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_PERMANENT
requested quality of service parameters permanently unavailable during
connection establishment
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_TRANSIENT
requested quality of service parameters temporarily unavailable during
connection establishment
.TP
.B DL_DISC_UNSPECIFIED
reason unspecified
.RE
.TP
.I dl_correlation
if non-zero, conveys the correlation number that was contained in the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
that is being aborted (see
.I \*(lqMulti-threaded Connection Establishment,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7)).
This value permits the DLS user to associate the message with the proper
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7).
If the disconnect indication is indicating the release of a connection that is
already established, or is indicating the rejection of a previously sent
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7),
the value of
.I dl_correlation
will be zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_CODLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any of the states:
.BR DL_DATAXFER ,
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING ,
.BR DL_OUTCON_PENDING ,
.BR DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING ,
.BR DL_USER_RESET_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_DISCONNECT_IND
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
does not support connection-oriented service mode directly.
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
only supports connection-oriented service mode.
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
