'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-25 12:46:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:46:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ (dl_hp_notify_event_req_t)
\- request notification of events.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific.
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_event;
    t_uscalar_t dl_reserved1;
    t_uscalar_t dl_reserved2;
} dl_hp_notify_event_req_t;

typedef enum {
    DL_HP_DISABLE_EVENTS = 0,
    DL_HP_LINK_STATE_CHANGE,
} dl_hp_event_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
primitive request notification of link down and link up events.  The DLS User
requesting link state change receives a
.BR DL_HP_LINK_DOWN_IND (7)
and
.BR DL_HP_LINK_UP_IND (7)
primitives when the coresponding link state changes.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_event
an enumeration of type
.BR dl_hp_event_t
describing the type of the event.  It may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_HP_DISABLE_EVENTS
This value disables all event notifications.
.TP
.B DL_HP_LINK_STATE_CHANGE
This value notifies the DLS User about link down and link up events when the
link state changes.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_reserved1
This is the first reserved field and must be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I dl_reserved2
This is the second reserved field and must be set to zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules applies to the successful response of the DLS Provider:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
If the
.I dl_event
field is
.BR DL_HP_DISABLE_EVENTS ,
then the DLS Provider must not generate any event indication primitives after
acknowledging the primitive.
.IP 2.
If the
.I dl_event
field is
.BR DL_HP_LINK_STATE_CHANGE ,
then the DLS Provider must generate link state event indication primitives
after acknowledging the primitive and whenever the link state changes.  The
DLS Provider should not indicate a state change while the link is
initializing.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in the
.BR DL_IDLE " or " DL_UNBOUND
states.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
If the request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is issued to the DLS user.
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 16
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to make the request.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_BADPRIM
The DLS provider does not recognize the
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
primitive.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
The DLS provider recognizes the
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
primitive, but does not support the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _HPUX_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.  Also, it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/dlpi_ext.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
is compatibible with
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
pirmitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR HP-UX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9),
.BR dlpi (7),
and
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_HP_NOTIFY_EVENT_REQ
was first documented in
.IR HP-UX \(rg .
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
