'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_HP_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-25 12:46:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:46:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_HP_INFO_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_HP_INFO_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK (dl_hp_info_ack_t)
\- acknowledge connection information request.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific.
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_mem_fails;
    t_uscalar_t dl_queue_fails;
    t_uscalar_t dl_ack_to;
    t_uscalar_t dl_p_to;
    t_uscalar_t dl_rej_to;
    t_uscalar_t dl_busy_to;
    t_uscalar_t dl_send_ack_to;
    t_uscalar_t dl_ack_to_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_p_to_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_rej_to_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_busy_to_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_local_win;
    t_uscalar_t dl_remote_win;
    t_uscalar_t dl_i_pkts_in;
    t_uscalar_t dl_i_pkts_oos;
    t_uscalar_t dl_i_pkts_in_drop;
    t_uscalar_t dl_i_pkts_out;
    t_uscalar_t dl_i_pkts_retrans;
    t_uscalar_t dl_s_pkts_in;
    t_uscalar_t dl_s_pkts_out;
    t_uscalar_t dl_u_pkts_in;
    t_uscalar_t dl_u_pkts_out;
    t_uscalar_t dl_bad_pkts;
    t_uscalar_t dl_retry_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_max_retry_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_max_retries;
    t_uscalar_t dl_ack_thres;
    t_uscalar_t dl_remote_busy_cnt;
    t_uscalar_t dl_hw_req_fails;
} dl_hp_info_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
primitive is issued by the DLS Provider in response to a
.BR DL_HP_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive from the DLS User.  It conveys information on the state of the
connection on a DLPI Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_HP_INFO_ACK .
.TP
.I dl_mem_fails
number of memory allocations that failed.
.TP
.I dl_queue_fails
number of times that the DLS provider was unable to forward a message because
the outbound queue was full.
.TP
.I dl_ack_to
length of the ACK timeout in tenths of a second.  The ACK timeout determines
the length of time that LLC Type 2 will ait for an acknowledgement of any
outstanding I PDUs or for a response to a U PDU before attempting to force a
response.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_p_to
length of the P timeout in tenths of a second.  The P timeout determines the
length of time that LLC Type 2, after sending a command with the P bit set to
1, will wait for a response with the F bit set to 1 before attempting to force
a response.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_rej_to
length fo the REJ timeout in tenths of a second.  The REJ timeout determines
the length of the time that LLC Type 2 will wait for a response to a REJ PDU
before attempting to force a response.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_busy_to
length of the BUSY timeout in tenths of a second.  The BUSY timeout determines
the length of time that LLC Type 2 will wait for an indication that a remote
busy condition has been cleared before attempting to force a response.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_send_ack_to
length of the SEND_ACK timeout in tenths of a second.  The SEND_ACK timeout
determines the maximum length of time that LLC Type 2 will delay
acknowledgement of I PDUs if it has not received
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.I dl_send_ack_threshold
I PDUs.
.TP
.I dl_ack_to_cnt
a count of the number of time that the ACK timer has expired.
.TP
.I dl_p_to_cnt
a count of the number of times that the P timer has expired.
.TP
.I dl_rej_to_cnt
a count of the number of times that the REJ timer has expired.
.TP
.I dl_busy_to_cnt
a count of the number of times that the BUSY timer has expired.
.TP
.I dl_local_win
the size of the local receive window in packets.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_remote_win
the size of the remote receive window in packets.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_i_pkts_in;
a count of the number of I PDUs received correctly.
.TP
.I dl_i_pkts_oos;
a count of the number of I PDUs received out of sequence.
.TP
.I dl_i_pkts_in_drop;
a count of the number of I PDUs received correctly, but dropped due to lack of
resources.
.TP
.I dl_i_pkts_out;
a count of the number of I PDUs acknowledged by the remote system.
.TP
.I dl_i_pkts_retrans;
a count of the number of I PDUs re-transmitted.
.TP
.I dl_s_pkts_in
a count of the number of S PDUs received.
.TP
.I dl_s_pkts_out
a count of the number of S PDUs transmitted.
.TP
.I dl_u_pkts_in
a count of the number of U PDUs received.
.TP
.I dl_u_pkts_out
a count of the number of U PDUs transmitted.
.TP
.I dl_bad_pkts
a count of the number of PDUs received with bad control fields.
.TP
.I dl_retry_cnt
a count of the most recent number of times that LLC TYpe 2 has attempted for
force a response from the remote due to a timer expiration.  This value is
reset to zero (0) when a response is received.
.TP
.I dl_max_retry_cnt
a high water mark of the count
.IR dl_retry_cnt ,
representing the highest count that
.I dl_retry_cnt
has acheived.
.TP
.I dl_max_retries
the maximum allowed number of retries before resetting the connection.  This
is sometimes known as the N2 variable.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_ack_thres
maximum number of I PDUs that can be received before an acknowledgement is
sent.  If this threshold is reached, an acknowledgement is sent and the
SEND_ACK timer is restarted.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.[
iso8208
.]
.TP
.I dl_remote_busy_cnt
a count of the number of times that the remote system has reported that it was
busy.
.TP
.I dl_hw_req_fails
a count of the number of times that LLC Type 2 has been unable to transmit due
to congestion in the interface device driver or interface card.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in response to a
.BR DL_HP_INFO_REQ (7)
and when another local acknowledgement is not pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _HPUX_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.  Also, it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/dlpi_ext.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
is compatibible with
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
pirmitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR HP-UX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9),
.BR dlpi (7),
and
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_HP_INFO_ACK
was first documented in
.IR HP-UX \(rg .
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
