'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_NOTIFY_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-25 12:46:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:46:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_NOTIFY_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:55  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_NOTIFY_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ (dl_notify_req_t)
\- request registration of event notification
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_notifications;
    t_uscalar_t dl_timelimit;
} dl_notify_req_t;

#define DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR         (1UL<< 0)
#define DL_NOTE_PROMISC_ON_PHYS   (1UL<< 1)
#define DL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS  (1UL<< 2)
#define DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN         (1UL<< 3)
#define DL_NOTE_LINK_UP           (1UL<< 4)
#define DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL        (1UL<< 5)
#define DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL      (1UL<< 6)
#define DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE          (1UL<< 7)
#define DL_NOTE_SPEED             (1UL<< 8)
#define DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH    (1UL<< 9)
#define DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG       (1UL<<10)
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
allows the DLS user to register for notification when requested events occur
at the DLS provider.  The request for notification is valid on any DLPI Stream
that is an attached state and when a local acknoledgement is not pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_notifications
conveys the requested notifications.  This can be a bitwise OR of zero or more
of the values listed below.  Each value requests that one or more
notifications using the
.BR DL_NOTIFY_IND (7)
primitive will be provided whenever:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR
the physical address
associated with the physical point of attachment (PPA) changes;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_ON_PHYS
physical promiscious mode is
set on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS
physical promiscuous mode is
cleared on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
the physical link associated
with the physical point of attachment (PPA) goes down;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_UP
the physical link associated
with the physical point of attachment (PPA) comes up;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL
link aggregation becomes
available for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL
link aggregation becomes
unavailable for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE
the maximum SDU size, either
globally or per address, changes on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SPEED
the link speed changes, or
becomes available for the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH
the fast path information
changes for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG
capabilities associated with
the physical point of attachment (PPA) are being renegotiated, see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_timelimit
conveys the time limit, in milliseconds, for which notifications are to be
provided.  (This field is reserved for future use and must be set to zero.)
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
The
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
requires that the DLS provider acknowledge receipt of the primitive.
The
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
requires that the DLS provider issue either:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
A
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7),
indicating which of the notifications are supported.  For each of the requested
bits in the
.I dl_notifications
field of the
.B DL_NOTIFIY_REQ
primitive, the DLS provider sets the associated bit in the
.I dl_notifications
field of the correponsing
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
primitive, for each event that is supported by the DLS provider.  Each
supported event for notificiation also has the value set in the
.I dl_notifications
field of the corresponding
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
primitive.  However, only those events that were requested by the DLS user in
the
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
primitive will have event notifications indicated using the
.BR DL_NOTIFY_IND (7)
primitive.
.IP \(bu
A
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
primitive indicating the error.
.PP
When the primitive is acknowledged with a
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
primitive, the provider is subsequently required to issue
.BR DL_NOTIFY_IND (7)
primitives when any of the requested and supported notification events are
detected.
.PP
Note that a DLS user may discover the events supported for notification by the
DLS provider without invoking any notification indications by setting the
.I dl_notifications
field to zero in the request.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in any state other than state
.BR DL_UNATTACHED ,
and when a local acknowledgement is not pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state remains the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
If the request is successful,
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
is issued to the DLS user.
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 16
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to make the request.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_BADPRIM
The DLS provider does not recognize the
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
primitive.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
The DLS provider recognizes the
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
primitive, but does not support the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _SUN_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR DL_\%NOTIFY_\%ACK (7),
.BR DL_\%NOTIFY_\%IND (7),
.BR DL_\%ERROR_\%ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
is compatibible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc10
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Before attempting to use the features of the
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
primitive, the DLS user should issue a
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
primitive with the
.I dl_notifications
field set to zero.  If the DLS provider responds with a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with either the
.BR DL_BADPRIM " or " DL_NOTSUPPORTED
error number, the DLS provider does not recognize, or support, the primitive.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document values of the
.I dl_notifications
field:
.BR DL_\%NOTE_\%AGGR_\%AVAIL ", " DL_\%NOTE_\%AGGR_\%UNAVAIL ", " DL_\%NOTE_\%FASTPATH_\%FLUSH " and " DL_\%NOTE_\%CAPAB_\%RENEG .
These values should not be used even by
.IR Solaris \(rg
programs.  Link aggregation and IP fast path are not supported by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
drivers, modules, libraries and programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
and
.BR dlpi (7),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_REQ
was first documented in
.IR Solaris \(rg .
.[
soldoc10
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
