'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_NOTIFY_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-25 12:46:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:46:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_NOTIFY_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:55  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_NOTIFY_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND (dl_notify_ind_t)
\- indicate event notification
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, that contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_notification;
    t_uscalar_t dl_data;
    t_uscalar_t dl_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_addr_offset;
} dl_notify_ind_t;

#define DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR         (1UL<< 0)
#define DL_NOTE_PROMISC_ON_PHYS   (1UL<< 1)
#define DL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS  (1UL<< 2)
#define DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN         (1UL<< 3)
#define DL_NOTE_LINK_UP           (1UL<< 4)
#define DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL        (1UL<< 5)
#define DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL      (1UL<< 6)
#define DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE          (1UL<< 7)
#define DL_NOTE_SPEED             (1UL<< 8)
#define DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH    (1UL<< 9)
#define DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG       (1UL<<10)
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_NOTIFY_IND .
.TP
.I dl_notification
indicates the event that prompted the notification.  Only a single event type
can be indicated, and contains one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR
the physical address
associated with the physical point of attachment (PPA) changed;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_ON_PHYS
physical promiscious mode was
set on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS
physical promiscuous mode was
cleared on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
the physical link associated
with the physical point of attachment (PPA) went down;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_UP
the physical link associated
with the physical point of attachment (PPA) came up;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL
link aggregation became
available for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL
link aggregation became
unavailable for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE
the maximum SDU size, either
globally or per address, changed on the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SPEED
the link speed changed, or
becomes available for the physical point of attachment (PPA);
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH
the fast path information
changed for the physical point of attachment (PPA), see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG
capabilities associated with
the physical point of attachment (PPA) are being renegotiated, see
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_data
indicates data associated with the event indicate in the
.I dl_notification
field, as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SPEED
.I dl_data
contains the speed of the interface in kilobits per second.
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR
.I dl_data
is set to
.BR DL_CURR_PHYS_ADDR .
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE
.I dl_data
is set to the current MTU in octets.
.PP
Otherwise,
.I dl_data
is set to zero (0) by the DLS provider.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_addr_length
conveys the length of the physical address when the
.I dl_notification
field is set to
.BR DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR ,
and zero (0) otherwise.
.TP
.I dl_addr_offset
conveys the offset of the phsyical address from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block when the
.I dl_notification
field is set to
.BR DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR ,
and zero (0) otherwise.
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
The DLS provider issues
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitives in accordance with the following rules:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The DLS provider must issue a
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
message indicating the state of the interface immediately following issuing a
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
primitive acknowledging both the request and support of the corresponding
event.  So, for example, if the link is down when a
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
event was requested and supported, after issuing the
.BR DL_NOTIFY_ACK (7)
primitive, the DLS provider must issue a
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitive indicating the
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
event.
(Note that the DLS provider should not issue
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
indications while the link is initializing.)
.IP 2.
After this initial
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitive, the DLS provider must continue to issue
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitives whenever the corresponding event occurs until it receives a new
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
message with the corresponding event clear in the requested events, or until
the DLS provider Stream is detached with the
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7)
primitive, or the Stream is closed with
.BR close (2s).
.IP 3.
When events have been registered with
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
and a subsequent
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7)
primitive detaches a Style 2 DLS provider, the driver must retain the
registration of events must treat a
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive as reregistering the previously registered events as though a
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
primitive registering the same events had been issued immediately following the
successful completion of the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.  The
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitives described in rule (1), above, must also be generated following this
reattaching
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
primitive is only issued by the DLS provider in an attached state and when no
local acknowledgement is pending.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The state remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.BR _SUN_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the declarations and structures associated with this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR DL_\%NOTIFY_\%REQ (7),
.BR DL_\%NOTIFY_\%ACK (7),
.BR DL_\%ERROR_\%ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
is compatibible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc10
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
primitive that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Before attempting to use the features of the
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
primitive, the DLS user should issue a
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
primitive with the
.I dl_notifications
field set to zero.  If the DLS provider responds with a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with either the
.BR DL_\%BADPRIM " or " DL_\%NOTSUPPORTED
error number, the DLS provider does not recognize, or support, the primitive.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document values of the
.I dl_notifications
field:
.BR DL_\%NOTE_\%AGGR_\%AVAIL ", " DL_\%NOTE_\%AGGR_\%UNAVAIL ", " DL_\%NOTE_\%FASTPATH_\%FLUSH " and " DL_\%NOTE_\%CAPAB_\%RENEG .
These values should not be used even by
.IR Solaris \(rg
programs.  Link aggregation and IP fast path are not supported by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
drivers, modules, libraries and programs.
.IP \(em
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may be
removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
and
.BR dlpi (7),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
.B DL_NOTIFY_IND
was first documented in
.IR Solaris \(rg .
.[
soldoc10
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
