'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_OK_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-05-25 12:49:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:49:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_OK_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_OK_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_OK_ACK (dl_ok_ack_t)
\- acknowledges to the DLS user that a previously issued request
primitive was received successfully.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correct_primitive;
} dl_ok_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_OK_ACK
acknowledges to the DLS user that a previously issued request primitive was
received successfully.  It is only initiated for those primitives that require
a positive acknowledgement.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_OK_ACK .
.TP
.I dl_correct_primitive
identifies the successfully received primitive that is being acknowledged.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in response to any of the following:
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR DL_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7),
.BR DL_RESET_RES (7),
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR DL_SUBS_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR DL_PROMISCON_REQ (7),
.BR DL_ENABMULTI_REQ (7),
.BR DL_DISABMULTI_REQ "(7) or "
.BR DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ ,
from any of several states as defined in
.I \*(lqAllowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH NEW STATE
The resulting state depends on the current state and is defined fully in
.I \*(lqAllowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
