'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:26:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:26:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxns.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ (dl_phys_addr_req_t)
\- this primitive requests the DLS provider to return either the default
(factory) or the current value of the physical address associated with the
stream depending upon the value of the address type selected in the request.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_addr_type;
} dl_phys_addr_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ
requests the DLS provider to return either the default
(factory) or the current value of the physical address associated with the
stream depending upon the value of the address type selected in the request.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_addr_type
conveys the type of address requested - factory physical address or
current physical address:
.TP
.I DL_FACT_PHYS_ADDR
factory physical address
.TP
.I DL_CURR_PHYS_ADDR
current physical address.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any attached state in which a local
acknowledgement is not pending.  For a style 2 provider, this would be after
a PPA is attached using the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7).
For a Style 1 provider, the PPA is implicitly attached after the stream is
opened.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
The provider responds to the request with a
.BR DL_PHYS_ADDR_ACK (7)
if the request is supported.  Otherwise, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known, but not supported by the DLS Provider.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
