'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_PROMISCON_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-05-25 12:49:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:49:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_PROMISCON_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_PROMISCON_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_PROMISCON_REQ (dl_promiscon_req_t)
\- this primitive requests the DLS Provider to enable promiscuous mode on
a per Stream basis, either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_level;
} dl_promiscon_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests the DLS Provider to enable promiscuous mode on a
per Stream basis, either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.PP
The DL Provider will route all received messages on the media to the DLS
User until either a
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7)
or a
.BR DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ (7)
is received or the
Stream is closed.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_PROMISCON_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_level
indicates promiscuous mode at the physical or SAP level:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_PHYS
indicates promiscuous mode at the physical level
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_SAP
indicates promiscuous mode at the SAP level
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_MULTI
indicates promiscuous mode for all multicast addresses.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The message is valid in any state when there is no pending
acknowledgement.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
If enabling of promiscuous mode is successful, a
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is returned.  Otherwise, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known but not supported by the DLS Provider
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A System error has occurred and the Linux System error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested service is not supplied by the provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ (7),
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7),
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.B DL_PROMISCON_REQ
is compatible with DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and implementations based on DLPI, including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldlpi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
HP-UX documentation
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
indicates that if
.B DL_PROMISC_PHYS
is enabled before the Stream has been bound with
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7),
the DLS user will receive all traffic on the wire regardless of SAP or address.
If enabled after the Stream has been bound, the DLS user receives all traffic
on the wire that matches the protocol(s) to which the DLS user has been bound.
This includes protocols bound with the
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.RS
.PP
If
.B DL_PROMISC_SAP
is enabled before the Stream has been bound with
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7),
the DLS user receives all traffic destined for this interface (physical
address, broadcast addresses or bound mulitcast addresses) that matches any SAP
enable on that interface.  If enabled after the Stream has been bound, the DLS
user receives only those packets originally destined for the interface that
match one of the protocol(s) bound on the promiscuous Stream.
.PP
If
.B DL_PROMISC_MULTI
is enabled before the Stream has been bound with
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7),
the DLS user receives all multicast packets on the wire regardless of the SAP.
After the Stream has been bound, the DLS user receives all multicast packets
that match one of the protocol(s) bound on the promiscuous Stream.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also exhibits this behaviour for compatibility with porting
.IR HP-UX \(rg
DLPI applications to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.RE
.PP
For additional compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
