'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-06-18 16:45:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-06-18 16:45:35  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND (dl_reply_update_status_ind_t)
\- this primitive is the service confirmation primitive for the reply data
unit preparation service.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_status;
} dl_reply_update_req_t;
\f(CW\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive is the service confirmation primitive for the reply data unit
preparation service.  This primitive is sent to the DL User from the DLS
Provider to indicate the success or failure of the previous associated data
unit preparation request.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_UPDATE_STATUS_IND .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
Indicates the context information passed with the
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ (7)
to allow the DLS User correlate the status with the appropriate previous
request.
.TP
.I dl_status
indicates the success or failure of the previous associated data unit
preparation request.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CMD_OK
command accepted.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_RS
unimplemented or inactivated service.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_UE
LLC User Interface error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_PE
protocol error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_IP
permanentimplementation dependent error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_UN
resources temporarily available.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_IT
temporary implementation dependent error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_OK
response DLSDU present.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_RS
unimplemented or inactivated service.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_NE
response DLSDU never submitted.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_NR
response DLSDU not requested.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_UE
LLC User interface error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_IP
permanent implementation dependent error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_UN
resources temporarily unavailable.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_IT
temporaryimplementation dependent error.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_ACDLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
does not support this primitive, and will return a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
error code.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.[
aixlink
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
do not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the LLC Data Link Service Definition.
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
