'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_RESET_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.9 2008-07-01 12:06:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:06:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_RESET_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-07-01 12:06:38  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-06-18 16:45:35  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_RESET_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_RESET_IND (dl_reset_ind_t)
\- informs the DLS user that either the remote DLS user is resynchronizing
the data link connection, or the DLS provider is reporting loss of data
for which it can not recover.  The indication conveys the reason for the reset.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_originator;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_reason;
} dl_reset_ind_t;
\f(CW\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_RESET_IND
informs the DLS user that either the remote DLS user is resynchronizing
the data link connection, or the DLS provider is reporting loss of data
for which it can not recover.  The indication conveys the reason for the reset.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_RESET_IND .
.TP
.I dl_originator
conveys whether the reset was originated by the DLS user or DLS provider
.RB ( DL_USER " or " DL_PROVIDER ,
respectively).
.TP
.I dl_reason
conveys the reason for the reset.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_RESET_FLOW_CONTROL
indicates flow control congestion
.TP
.B DL_RESET_LINK_ERROR
indicates a data link error situation
.TP
.B DL_RESET_RESYNCH
indicates a request for resynchronization of a data link connection.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
.B DL_CODLS
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
The DLS user should issue a
.BR DL_RESET_RES (7)
primitive to continue the resynchronization procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_RESET_IND
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc11
.]
does not support connection-oriented service mode directly.
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
only supports connection-oriented service mode.
.IP \(em
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
says that the
.I dl_originator
is always set to
.BR DL_USER ,
and the
.I dl_reason
is always set to
.BR DL_RESET_RESYNCH .
However, this is not consistent with ISO/IEC 8802-2,
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
that shows that reset indications can be local or remote and that only remote
indications can be due to the DLS user (peer) and local indications are always
due to the DLS provider.  Therefore,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
indicates
.BR DL_USER / DL_RESET_RESYNC
for remote reset indications and
.BR DL_PROVIDER / DL_RESET_FLOW_CONTROL ,
.BR DL_PROVIDER / DL_RESET_LINK_ERROR
or
.BR DL_PROVIDER / DL_RESET_RESYNCH
for local reset indications, depending on the mechanism providing the local
reset indication.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
