'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-06-18 16:45:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-06-18 16:45:35  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-05-25 12:49:26  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (dl_subs_bind_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider bind a subsequent DLSAP to the stream.  The DLS
user must identify the address of the subsequent DLSAP to be bound to the
stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_subs_sap_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_subs_sap_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_subs_bind_class;
} dl_subs_bind_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ
requests the DLS provider bind a subsequent DLSAP to the stream.  The DLS
user must identify the address of the subsequent DLSAP to be bound to the
stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_subs_sap_offset
conveys the offset of the DLSAP from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
block.
.TP
.I dl_subs_sap_length
conveys the length of the specified DLSAP.
.TP
.I dl_subs_bind_class
specifies either peer or hierarchical addressing:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_PEER_BIND
specifies peer addressing.  The DLSAP specified is used in lieu of the DLSAP
bound in the BIND request.
.TP
.B DL_HIERARCHICAL_BIND
specifies hierarchical addressing.  The DLSAP specified is used in addition
to the DLSAP specified using the BIND request.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_PND .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
If the subsequent bind request is successful,
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user resulting in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state
is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested
DLSAP address.
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The DLSAP address information was invalid or was in an incorrect
format.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A System error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_TOOMANY
Limit exceeded on the maximum number of DLSAPs per stream.
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested addressing class not supported.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solstice \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
does not document this primitive.  Portable programs will avoid subsequent
binds in connection-oriented service modes.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdlpi
.]
details
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.\"
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
