'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_XID_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-06-18 16:45:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_XID_RES.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-06-18 16:45:36  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-05-25 12:49:27  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and DLPI header
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_XID_RES 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_XID_RES (dl_xid_res_t)
\- conveys an XID DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider in response to a
.BR DL_XID_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Data Link Provider Interface, DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing zero or more bytes of data.  The message structure is
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#include <sys/dlpi.h>

typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_flag;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
} dl_xid_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_XID_RES
conveys an XID DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider in response to a
.BR DL_XID_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_XID_RES .
.TP
.I dl_flag
conveys the flag values associated with the received XID frame.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_POLL_FINAL
indicates if the poll/final bit is set.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the destination DLS User.  If the
destination user is implemented using DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP
address returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where
the destination DLSAP address begins.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODE
This primitive is valid in
any
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
The message is valid in states
.B DL_IDLE
and
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
On a invalid XID response request, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is issued to the usr.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The DLSAP address information was invalid or was in an incorrect
format.
.TP
.B DL_BADDATA
The amount of data in the current DLSDU exceeded the DLS Provider's
DLSDU limit.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known but not supported by the DLS Provider
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A System error has occurred and the Linux System error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_XIDAUTO
Previous bind request specified Provider would handle XID.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DL_XID_RES
primitive is compatible with implementations based on DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdlpi
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc11
.]
.IR Solstice \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
LAPB
.[
aixlink
.]
does not support this primitive.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the OSI Data Link Service Definition.
.[
x212
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
