'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_CONN_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/04/05 09:44:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_CONN_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_CONN_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_CONN_IND, N_conn_ind_t
\- network connection indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks for NS user data.
The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_CONN_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;          /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;          /* destination address offset */
    ulong SRC_length;           /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;           /* source address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;           /* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;           /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;           /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;           /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the destination NS user that a network connect
request has been made by the user at the specified source address.
.PP
The specification of NS user data is optional.  The NS user can send any
integral number of octets of data within the range supported by the NS
provider.  The NS user data will only be present if the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
had NS user data parameter specified, and their data will be identical.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address parameter that conveys an
address identifying the NS user to which the NC is to be established.

.TP
.I DEST_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I SRC_length
The source address parameter conveys the network address ofthe NS user from
which the NC has been requested.  The semantics of the value in the
.BR N_CONN_IND
primitive isidentical to the value associated with the stream on which the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
was issued.

.TP
.I SRC_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I SEQ_number
Identifies the sequence number that can be used by the NS userto associate
this message with the
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
or
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive that is to follow.  This value must be unique among the outstanding
.B N_CONN_IND
messages.  The use of this field allows the NS user to issue the
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
or the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
messages in any order.

.TP
.I CONN_flags
Indicates the connection flags that can be a bitwise OR of any of the
following values:
.RS

.TP
.B REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receiptconfirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.

.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the
expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.
.RE

.TP
.I QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that are negotiated during NC
establishment.  If the destination NS user does not agree to the range of QOS
values specified by the source NS user in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive, it will reject the NC establishment by invoking a
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive (the originator parameter in the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive will indicate NS user initiated release).  If the NS user does
not support or cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value will
be set to
.BR QOS_UNKNOWN .
If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this
field should be set to zero.

.TP
.I QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginningof the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in the states
.B NS_IDLE
and
.BR NS_WRES_CIND .
.SH "NEW STATE"
In both cases the resulting state is
.B NS_WRES_CIND
(the number of connect indications waiting for user response is incremented by
one).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
