'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_DRAIN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008/07/08 16:57:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_DRAIN_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/08 16:57:30  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:58  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_DRAIN_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_DRAIN_REQ, N_drain_req_t
\- drain packets request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
The structure of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;     /* always N_DRAIN_REQ */
    np_ulong DRAIN_option;  /* type of drain condition */
} N_drain_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the NS provider drain packets.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.
Always
.BR N_DRAIN_REQ .
.\"
.TP
.I DRAIN_option
This field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B N_DRAIN_IMMED
Acknowledge written NSDUs immediately.
.TP
.B N_DRAIN_SENT
Acknowledge NSDUs sent to the X.25 driver immediately.
.TP
.B N_DRAIN_ACKED
Acknowledge NSDUs once acknowledged by the peer and the X.25 driver.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in any state.
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
The new state rmains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B N_DRAIN_REQ
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.B _GCOM_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/npi.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.  Also, it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/npiext.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structures associated with this
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_DRAIN_REQ
is compatible with
.IR GCOM ,
.[
npiapi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B N_DRAIN_REQ
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
primitive that is not part of the NPI standard.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable NPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B N_DRAIN_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with NS providers and user written to use with
.IR GCOM ,
.[
npiapi
.]
and for porting NS providers and users from
.I GCOM
to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Binary compatibilty is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may
be removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9),
.BR npi (7),
and
.BR npi_ioctl (4),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2,
.[
npi
.]
and
.I GCOM
documentation.
.[
npiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
The
.B N_DRAIN_REQ
primitive first appeared in
.IR GCOM .
.[
npiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
