'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-07-01 12:06:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:06:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-07-01 12:06:39  brian
.\" - updated manual pages, added new API library headers and impl files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-06-18 16:45:36  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:54  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_ERROR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_ERROR_ACK, N_error_ack_t
\- error acknowledgement
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a non-fatal error has occurred in
the last network-user-originated primitive.  This may only be initiated as an
acknowledgment for those primitives that require one.  It also indicates to the
user that no action was taken on the primitive that caused the error.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;   /* always N_ERROR_ACK */
    ulong ERROR_prim;  /* primitive in error */
    ulong NPI_error;   /* NPI error code */
    ulong UNIX_error;  /* Linux system error code */
} N_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Identifies the primitive type.

.TP
.I ERROR_prim
Identifies the primitive type that caused the error.

.TP
.I NPI_error
Contains the Network Provider Interface error code.

.TP
.I UNIX_error
Contains the Linux system error code.  This may only be non-zero if the
.I NPI_error
is equal to
.BR NSYSERR .
.SH ERRORS
The following error codes are allowed to be returned:
.TP
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format,
or the address contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ NBADOPT ]
The options values as specified in the primitive were in an incorrect format,
or they contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSPARAM ]
The QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSTYPE ]
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADTOKEN ]
Token used is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.RB [ NNOADDR ]
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NBADSEQ ]
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADFLAG ]
The flags specified in the primitive were incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ]
Specified primitive type is not known to the NS provider.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in all states that have a pending acknowledgment or
confirmation.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The new state is the same as the one from which the acknowledged request or
response was issued.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
