'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_EXDATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/07/04 01:13:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/07/04 01:13:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_EXDATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/07/04 01:13:15 $" "$Name:  $" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ " (" N_exdata_req_t )
\- expedited data transfer request
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a NS user originated primitive and is used to indicate to the network
provider that the message block contains an ENSDU.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.  The NS user must send an integral number of octets of data within the
range supported by the NS provider (see
.BR N_INFO_ACK(7)).
The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_EXDATA_REQ */
} N_exdata_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_DATA_XFER .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state remains the same
.RB ( NS_DATA_XFER ).
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive does not require any acknowledgemnts, although it may generate
a fatal (unrecoverable) error.  This is indicated via an
.B M_ERROR
.I STREAMS
message type (issued to the NS user with the
.IR errno (3)
value of
.BR EPROTO ),
which results in the failure of all system calls on that stream.
.SH ERRORS
The applicable errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.IP \- 4
The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.IP \-
The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive defines an expedited
network service data unit of a size that is outside the range supported by the
NS provider.
.IP \-
Expedited data transfer is either not supported by the NS provider or not
requested with the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7) 
primitive.
.PP
.B Note:
If the interface is in the
.B NS_IDLE
or
.B NS_WRES_RIND
states when the provider receives the
.B N_EXDATA_REQ
primitive, then the NS provider should discard the request without generating
a fatal error.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
