'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_EXT2_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-07-01 11:50:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 11:50:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_EXT2_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:58  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_EXT2_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ, N_ext2_bind_req_t
\- Second Extended Bind Protocol Address Request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;      /* always N_EXT2_BIND_REQ */
    ulong ADDR_length;    /* length of address */
    ulong ADDR_offset;    /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;  /* req # of conn-indications to be queued */
    ulong BIND_flags;     /* flags associated with N_EXT2_BIND_REQ */
    ulong REM_length;     /* length of remote address */
    ulong REM_offset;     /* offset of remote address */
    ulong LPA_number;     /* incoming lower physical address */
    uchar DATA_val[16];   /* match value for call user data */
    uchar DATA_mask[16];  /* mask value for call user data */
} N_ext2_bind_req_t;

/* Flags associated with N_EXT2_BIND_REQ */

#define DEFAULT_LISTENER  0x00000001L
#define TOKEN_REQUEST     0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_DEST      0x00000004L
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the NS provider bind a NS user entity to a
network address and negotiate the number of connect indications allowed to be
outstanding by the NS provider for the specified NS user entity being bound.
.\"
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Is the primitive type.
.\"
.TP
.I ADDR_length
Is the length in bytes of the network address to be bound to the stream.
.\"
.TP
.I ADDR_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the network address begins.
.\"
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Is the requested number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by
the NS provider for the specified protocol address.  (If the number of
outstanding connect indications equals
.IR CONIND_number ,
the NS provider need not discard further incoming connect indications, but may
choose to queue them internally until the number of outstanding connect
indications drops below the
.IR CONIND_number .)
Only one stream per network address is allowed to have a
.I CONIND_number
value greater than zero.  This indicates to the network provider that this
stream is the listener stream for the NS user.  This stream will be used by the
NS provider for connect indications for that network address.  If a stream is
bound as a listener stream, it will not be able to initiate connect requests.
If the NS user attempts to send an
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive down this stream,
an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
message will be sent to the NS user by the NS provider with an error value fo
.BR NACCESS .
This field should be ignored in CLNS.
.\"
.TP
.I BIND_flags
Bind flags\-any of the following flags:
.RS
.\"
.TP
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the "default listener
stream".  This stream is used to pass connect indications for all incoming
calls that contain protocol identifiers that are not bound to any other
listener, or when a listener stream with
.I CONIND_number
value of greater than zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will
receive all incoming call indications that contain no user data.
.RS
.PP
Only one default listener stream is allowed per occurrence of
.BR NPI .
An attempt to bind a default listener stream when one is already bound should
result in an error (of type
.BR NBOUND ).
.PP
The
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag is ignored in CLNS.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag indicates to the NS provider that the NS user has
requested that a "token" be assigned to the stream (to be used in the NC
response message), and the token value be returned to the NS user via the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.  The token assigned by the NS provider can then be used
by the NS user in a subsequent
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive to identify the stream on which the NC is to be established.  The
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
flag is ignored in CLNS.
.\"
.TP
.B DEFAULT_DEST
When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the "default destination
stream." This stream will receive all packets destined for the NSAP specified
in the bind request.  If no NSAP is indicated in the bind request, then this
stream should receive all packets destined to an NSAP which is bound to no
other stream.  Only one default destination stream per NSAP is allowed per
occurrence of
.BR NPI .
An attempt to bind a default destination stream to an NSAP when one is already
bound should result in an error of type
.BR NBOUND .
.RS
.PP
The
.B DEFAULT_DEST
flag is ignored in the CONS.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B START_FC_ZERO
When set, start flow control at zero instead of infinite.  See
.BR N_FLOW_REQ (7).
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B USE_EXT_CONN_IND
When set, issue extended connection indications instead of normal connection
indications.  The default is to issue normal connection indications.  See
.BR N_EXT_CONN_IND (7).
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B USE_EXT_CONN_CON
When set, issue extended connection confirmations instead of normal connection
confirmations.  The default is to issue normal connection confirmations.  See
.BR N_EXT_CONN_CON (7).
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B USE_ASCII_NSAP
When set, always encode NSAP addresses in ASCII.
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B INHIBIT_PKTIZE
When set, do not automatically break outbound packets that are too large into
smaller packets.
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B USE_EXT2_CONN_IND
When set, issue second extended connection indications instead of normal
connection indications.  The default is to issue normal connection indications.
See
.BR N_EXT2_CONN_IND (7).
This is a GCOM extension.
.\"
.TP
.B USE_EXT2_CONN_CON
When set, issue second extended connection confirmations instead of normal
connection indications.  The default is to issue normal connection indications.
See
.BR N_EXT2_CONN_CON (7).
This is a GCOM extension.
.RE
.\".\"
.\".TP
.\".I PROTOID_length
.\"Is the length in bytes of the protocol ids to be bound to the stream.
.\".\"
.\".TP
.\".I PROTOID_offset
.\"Is the offset from the beginning of the
.\".BR M_PROTO (9)
.\"block where the protocol id
.\"begins.
.\"
.TP
.I REM_length
Is the length in bytes of the remote address to be bound to the stream.  The
remote address specifies the possible range of calling addresses for which
connections will be accepted.
.\"
.TP
.I REM_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the network address begins.
.\"
.TP
.I LPA_number
Specifies the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) from which connections will be
accepted.
.\"
.TP
.I DATA_val
Match value for up to the first 16 bytes of the User Data field of the
connection indication.  Only incoming calls that match this value when masked by
the \fIDATA_mask\fP field will be indicated to the NS user.
.\"
.TP
.I DATA_mask
Mask value for up to the first 16 bytes of the User Data field of the connection
indication.  Only incoming calls that match the \fIDATA_val\fP value when masked
by this field will be indicated to the NS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B NS_UNBND
(see Appendix B).
.\"
.\"
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The new state is
.BR NE_WACK_BREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
The NS provider will generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt ofthe
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ
primitive:
.HP
.B Successful: 
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.B Non-fatal errors: 
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  The applicable
non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
The network address was in an incorrect format or the address contained illegal
information.  It is not intended to indicate protocol errors.
.TP
.RB [ NBOUND ]
The NS user attempted to bind a second stream to a network address with the
.I CONIND_number
set to a non-zero value, or attempted to bind a second stream with the
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag value set to non-zero.
.TP
.RB [ NNOADDR ]
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NNOPROTOID ]
Protocol identifier could not be allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
primitive.  It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.B _GCOM_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/npi.h >
header file to expose the defintiions and structures associated with this
primitive.  Also, it might be necessary to include the
.RB < sys/npiext.h >
header file to expose the definitions and structure associated with this
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ
is compatible with
.IR GCOM ,
.[
npiapi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
primitive that is not part of the NPI standard.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable NPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B N_EXT2_BIND_REQ
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with NS Providers and Users written to use with
.IR GCOM ,
.[
npiapi
.]
and for porting NS Providers and User from
.I GCOM
to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may
be removed from the next release.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9),
.BR npi (7),
and
.BR npi_ioctl (4),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
