'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cd.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-28 23:39:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cd.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-28 23:39:49  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/08/12 16:01:53  brian
.\" - minor documentation update
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/12/20 23:07:34  brian
.\" - updates for release and current development
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cd
\- Communications Device Drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/cdi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/cd.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/cd_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " cd_stream " = open(" cd_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CD
is an implementation of a communications device driver as specified in the
Communications Device Interface.
.PP
This is a multiplexing driver used to support linking CD HDLC Streams.  When CD Streams are linked
under the driver and configured using input-output controls, the HDLC Streams appears as an HLDC
device to Linux.  CD Streams can also be opened on the upper multiplex and attached to Linux raw
HDLC devices.  This permits CD drivers to be expired to Linux and CD user to also use Linux devices
not directly supported with a STREAMS driver.
.PP
To manage mapping of upper multiplex CD Streams to Linux devices, a specialized input-output control
and CD primitive is used.  These take as an argument the ASCII name of the device and return a PPA
(minor device number) that can be used either to open the device directly or can be used to attach
at Style 2 CD Stream to the device.
.PP
To manage mapping of lower multiplex CD Streams to Linux devices, a specialized input-output control
is used.  This input-output control takes as an argument the multiplex id and the ASCII device name.
When successful, the lower multiplex Stream is mapped to the Linux device of the same name.  Devices
mapped in this way begin life as a raw-HDLC device but can be configured using the sethdlc(8)
utility for Linux.

.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD
streams can be linked under a
.BR DL (4)
driver using the
.BR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
command of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide communications device services to the Layer 2 protocol.
This is normally performed by the appropriate configuration daemon.
.\"
.PP
.B CD
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
The Stream can be configured using
.BR cd_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD
provides the following Stream types:
The
.I cd_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/cd
This device provides the
.B CD
protocol services interface using the CD-primities of the Communications
Device Interface (CDI) described in
.BR cdi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.I cd_stream
file descriptor.
These management IO controls are documented in
.BR cd_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/cdi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cd.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cd_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- cd .o.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR chi (7),
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR isdn (4),
.BR cd_ioctl (4),
.BR dl_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B CD
module conforms to the CDI Specification, Revision 2.0.0.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B CD
module will first appear in
.BR strchan
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q920
.]
.[
q921
.]
.[
q921bis
.]
.[
cdi
.]
.[
dlpi
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
