'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cd_hdlc.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2006/12/20 23:07:34 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/20 23:07:34 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cd_hdlc.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/12/20 23:07:34  brian
.\" - updates for release and current development
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CD-HDLC 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cd_hdlc
\- Delimination Alignment and Error Detection
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/cdi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/cdi_hdlc.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/hdlc_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BR "int " ch_stream " = open(" ch_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ch_device ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqcd-hdlc\*(rq\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
is an implementation of the High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC) Procedures as specified in
.B IS0 3309
.[
ISO 3309
.]
and
.BR "ISO 4333" .
.[
ISO 4335
.]
.B CD-HDLC
is intended to be used with the
.BR lapb (4),
.BR lapd (4),
.BR lapf (4),
multiplexing drivers.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
is implementated as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B CD-HDLC
module can be pushed over a stream conforming to the Channel Interface (CHI) as described in
.BR chi (7).
The
.B CD-HDLC
module provides HDLC acces to the bit stream from the channel provided by the
.BR chi (7)
Stream below it, by performing HDLC and HDLC functions on the raw bit stream.  The upper interface
provided by the
.B CD-HDLC
module is the Communications Device Interface (CDI) as described in
.BR cdi (7).
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
Streams can be linked under
.BR dl (4)
drivers
.BR lapd (4),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR lapf (4),
.BR gr303 (4),
.BR v52 (4),
using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide a complete Data Link that can then be linked under an
.BR isdn (4),
.BR fr (4),
.BR idlc (4),
.BR dpnss (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR v5ua (4)
or
.BR dua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to the Layer 3 protocol.  This is normally performed, as required, by
the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
has been implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of ISDN Data Link drivers for
various hardware cards.  All that is required is for the card to provide a Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
and push the
.BR cd-hdlc
.BR hdlc (4)
and
.BR dl (4)
modules to provide a complete and compliant Q.921
.[
q921
.]
Data Link.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
is implemented internally as a soft-HDLC using host-based table lookups.  While this is fairly
efficient, devices that are capable of performing this function in hardware should provide the
Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
directly.
An example of a device that does not include HDLC is the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.  An examle of one that does, is the
.BR acb56 (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B CD-HDLC
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B CD-HDLC
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B CD-HDLC
module responsds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B CD-HDLC
operations as described in
.BR hdlc_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cdi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cdi_hdlc.h> ,
.BR <ss7/hdlc_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- cd_hdlc .o
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dl (4),
.BR hdlc_ioctl (4),
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B CD-HDLC
module conforms to the CDI Specifications, Revision 1.0.
.[
cdi
.]
.PP
The
.B CD-HDLC
module does not appear until
.B strchan
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
