'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ch-pmod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ch-pmod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:49  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:43:44  brian
.\" - added manual pages, corrections
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CH-PMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Modules"
.SH NAME
.B ch-pmod, ch_pmod
\- Channel (CH) Pipe Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = pipe(" streams "[2]);
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" streams "[0], " \fRI_PUSH\fP ", " \fR\(lqch-pmod\(rq\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
is an simulation of a local channel control for devices conforming to the to the
.BR chi (7)
interface.
.B CH-PMOD
provides for the control of the channel and underlying interfaces and communications facilities.
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
is implemented as a STREAMS pushable module.
.B CH-PMOD
can be pushed over one end of a STREAMS-based
.BR pipe (4).
The result is two Streams, each corresponding to the file descriptor returned for each end of the
pipe, each presenting the Channel Interface (CHI) to CH User Streams above.  The result is a
simulated, connected channel facility.
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
Streams, from both sides, can have
.BR cd (4)
modules pushed to provide a complete data link facility.  In this way, facilities based drivers
can be emulated internal to a single host.  Quite complex configurations are possible.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B CH-PMOD
module is used as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a STREAMS-based pipe using the
.BR pipe (2s)
library call from the STREAMS library.
.IP 2.
Push the
.I \(lqch-pmod\(rq
module over one end of the pipe.  There is no need to push
.BR pipemod (4)
as the
.B CH-PMOD
module properly reverses the send of flush bits across the pipe twist when it is pushed directly
over a pipe end.
.IP 3.
Configure the channel on each end of the pipe using the CH input-output controls described in
.BR chi_ioctl (4)
and used normally with CH device drivers.
.IP 4.
Link the CH Streams under CD or MG multiplexing drivers, or push CD or SDL modules, in the same
fashion as other CH driver Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The service interface provided on each file descriptor of the STREAMS-based pipe is the Channel
Interface (CHI) described in
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
The
.B CH-PMOD
presents a
.I Style 1
device, in that it is implicitly associated with a Physical Point of Attachment; therefore,
.B CH-PMOD
does not require a Physical Point of Attachment addressing scheme.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
The
.B CH-PMOD
provides the same set of input-output controls that are provided for standard CH Streams, as
described in
.BR chi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.BR cd (4)
and
.BR mg (4)
have been implemented as multiplexing drivers to ease the development of matrix switching drivers
for various cards.  All that is required is transparent access to a group facility and the
implementation of the simplistic Multiplex Interface (CHI) and it is possible to link Streams under
the
.BR cd (4)
and
.BR mg (4)
multiplexing drivers to form a complete switching matrix with channelized access and multiplex
capabilities.  To facilitate testing of the
.BR cd (4)
and
.BR mg (4)
multiplexing drivers, both the
.BR ch-pmod (4)
and
.B CH-PMOD
modules were developed to permit tranforming STREAMS-based pipes into a connected group carrier or
channel facility.  This permits controlled testing of the multiplexing drivers that make up the
remainder of the switching matrix without using a real driver.
.PP
Therefore, one of the primary purposes of this module was for using STREAMS-based pipes to test the
other multiplexing drivers
.RB ( cd "(4) and " mg "(4))
with the Stream linked.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
is implemented internally as a wrapper around a STREAMS-based pipe.
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
does not implement a syncrhonous facilitiy in the same manner as a real driver:
.B CH-PMOD
simply passes data blocks through the STREAMS-based pipe.  To avoid usurping all of the system's
resources on passing idle bits through the emulated facility, a throttlin technique is used to limit
the bandwidth of the pipe to emulate a synchronous facility.  The throttling technique uses an
interval and a timer.  If the number of frames passed during the interval exceeds the throttle rate,
the pipe is stalled and the timer set.  The pipe is then restarted when the timer expires.  By
proper choice of the threshold and the timer, the effective bandwidth can be limited to an arbitrary
limit.  The effective bandwidth can be selected by setting the bandwidth of the facility using CH
input-output controls, as described in
.BR chi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/chi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/ch_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B CH-PMOD
is a STREAMS pushable modules named
.IR \(lqch-pmod\(rq .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B CH-PMOD
module has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR CH (4),
.BR chconfd (8),
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B CH
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
MG stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
CHI interfaces are consistent with CHI Revision 0.9.2.
.PP
The
.B CH
driver does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
