'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ch.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 23:39:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ch.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 23:39:49  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/22 07:17:34  brian
.\" - updated documentation for release (make check target)
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:22  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CH 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ch, CH
\- Channel (CH) Media Drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BF "int " ch_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CH
is an implementation of a local channel control for devices conforming to
the
.BR chi (7)
interface.
.B CH
provides for the control of the matrix and underlying interfaces and
communication facilities.
.PP
.B CH
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver.
.B CH
Streams can be linked under the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide channel services to the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver.
.B CH
Streams can be configured using
.BR chi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.SS Drivers
.PP
.B CH
provides the following Stream types that are directly compatible with the
Stream types provided by other
.BR CH
drivers.  To select one of these Stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/ch
This device provides the
.B CH
protocol service interface using the CH-primitives of the Channel Interface
described in
.BR chi (7),
as interpreted for use with local swithcing drivers described in
.BR chi_ch (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR mg (4)
driver using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B CH
driver is the switching workhorse of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.  Both CHI and CHI Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.
Bothe CHI and CHI Streams can be linked on the lower multiplex.  Any channel
of any Stream, whether upper or lower, can be connected through the multiplex
to any other channel.
.PP
The
.B CH
driver can perform simply isochronous conversion functions (e.g. mu-law to
a-law), digital padding, echo cancellation, compression/decompression, minor
rate adaption (e.g, 8-bit A-law into 5-bit GSM), that do not cause flow
control considerations as it performs simply matrix operations.
Preestablished or canned tones an announcements can be supported by the
driver. Dynamic announcemets need to be provided by an external module or in
hardware.  Complex operations such as HDLC conversion need to be provided
upstream or in hardware.
.PP
The
.B CH
driver is intended to support single-rate and multi-rate channels; however,
single-rate and multi-rate connection must match and no multi-rate conversion
will be performed.
The purpose of the
.B CH
driver is to perform simple circuit switching and do it very fast.
.PP
The
.B CH
driver can be modelled as a hardware Time-Space-Time switch, only switching is
performed primarily in software.  (When the driver connects two channels from
the lower multiplex, the data path may be through hardware instead of
software.)
.PP
The
.B CH
driver is, however, may be able to perform channel insertion and deletion from
a span.  For example, an entire E1 or T1 span can be connected, channel for
channel, to another E1 or T1 span.  The drivers has the ability to remove or
insert one or more channels on either side of the span connection.  The
purpose of channel insertion and deletion is to pull signalling channels out
of a span, particularly for ISDN primary rate connections and SS7 signalling.
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
At boot time, or when a new span or circuit is brought into service, a
management program opens a device or pseudo-device driver to obtain a Stream
reprsenting the new channel or span an links the Stream beneath the CH
multiplexing driver. Input-output controls are then used to assign the channel
or span (and timeslots within the span) to circuit identification numbers
within the matrix.  These channel identification numbers and the mapping to
specific hardware should be maintained in configuration files.
.PP
For example, when a T1 span is put into service on a V401P card, the
management program opens a Stream on the V401P CH device that represents the
T1 span, attaches the Stream to the T1 span, and then links the Stream beneath
the
.B CH
driver.  A configuration table is used to determine the circuit number
assignments for the card and T1 span selected.  An input-output control is
issued to the
.B CH
driver with the multiplex index of the linked span, and the circuit number
assignments for the span.  This input-output control also identifies other
particulars about the span (number of channels, DS0 or DS0A, etc).
The
.B CH
driver provides the ability for management programs to determine the lower
multiplex identifier that is associated with any circuit or circuit range.
This allow the management program to perform a
.BR I_PLINK (7)
operation and close the Stream.  It can later discover the multiplex ID from
the circuit assigment (contained in the configuration table) with an
input-output control to the CH driver, so that it know the multiplex ID to
user to remove the circuit or span from service with an
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
operation.
.PP
As another example, an Ephemeral connection manager process that is listening
for Ephemeral connection requests on the connection management Stream of the
.BR mg (4)
driver, receives a request to establish an RTP Stream to a remote host.  The
Ephemeral connection manager opens a
.BR rawip (4)
device, and pushes the
.BR rtp (4)
module over the device.
The
.BR rtp (4)
module is set to convert the media Stream to that appropriate for the channel
to which the Ephemeral connection will ultimately occur, and the Stream, which
provides a CHI interface, is linked under the CH driver.  It assigns a
circuit identification number with an input-output control.  The Ephemeral
connection manager then requests that the
.B CH
driver connect the Ephemeral connection to a Gateway circuit through the
matrix.
.PP
While CHI and CHI Streams on the lower multplex are attached to their circuits
or connections for the full time that they are linked, CHI and CHI Streams on
the upper multiplex are not so.  When a user-level program opens a Stream on
the upper multiplex, it remains unattached to any particular channel.  CHI or
CHI primitives are used to connect the upper multiplex Stream to either a
lower or another upper multiplex Stream.
.PP
Upper multiplex Stream provide the ability to terminate circuit connections
within another STREAMS module or driver above the CH driver.  For example,
a number of CHI Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex and are
identified by their device numbers and any asigned termination identifiers.
These Streams, which represent unconnected circuits, can then be linked under
a tones and announcements driver.  When a switching process such as the
.BR mg (4)
driver wishes to provide a tone or announcment to a circuit or an ephemeral
connection, it request that the CH driver connect the circuit or ephemeral
connection to one on the upper multiplex that terminates at the tones and
announcements driver.  By sending control messages to the tones and
announcements driver, the
.BR mg (4)
driver can then play progress tones or announcments to the user at the other
end of the locally terminated connection.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B CH
driver provides two interfaces at the lower multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels and the
.BR chi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e, spans).
.PP
The
.B CH
driver provides three interfaces at the upper multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels, the
.BR chi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e, spans); and a
management control interface for controling connections made across the
matrix.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Circuit addresses are 32-bit identifiers that are assigned to circuits or
cirguit groups.  Each circuit (upper or lower) has a unique identifier within
the
.B CH
driver.  One of the identifiers for a circuit within a circuit group can be
used to identify the circuit group as a whole.
Flags are used in management primitives to indicate whether a particular
identifier refers to a circuit or a circuit group.
.PP
Assignment of circuit identifiers, assign from requirements for uniqueness,
are arbitrary.  For operation with ISUP, a good choice would be to assign some
bit range of the identifier to be identical to the ISUP circuit identification
code for the circuit and the remainder to uniquely identifier one like ISUP
CIC assignment from another.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I ch_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR ch_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other OpenSS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport
communications services,
.B CH
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of switch multiplex control are
divorced from the sockets paradigm.
.PP
On the other hand, the
.PP
For performance reasons, SS7 and ISDN primary rate signalling channels are not
passed through the software switch matrix.  This permits signalling channels
to be subject to a different set of flow control rules and priorities.  SS7
and ISDN primary rate signalling channels can be dropped and inserted into a
channel group directly from the hardware driver (e.g, V401P driver).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/chi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/ch_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MODULES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/ch .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B CH
drivers have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR chconfd (8),
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B CH
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
MG stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
CHI interfaces are consistent with CHI Revision 0.9.2.
.PP
The
.B CH
driver does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
