'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mgi_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mgi_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:49  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/22 07:17:12  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH MGI-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mgi_ioctl, mg_ioctl
\- common input-output controls for Media Gateway (MG) devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mgi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mg_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " mg_stream " = open(" /dev/mg ", " flags ");
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" mg_stream ", I_STR, " arg ");
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MGI-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed objects and measurement and monitoring model for the
.BR mg (4)
driver using defined input-output controls.  The
.BR mg (4)
driver is an implementation of the Media Gateway Interface,
.BR mgi (7).
.B MGI-IOCTL
provides the definition of managed objects for the
.BR mg (4)
driver in accordance with a projecte defined managed object model and monitoring mesaurements and
events model.
.\"
.SS "Protocol Service Interface"
.PP
.B MG
provides the following Stream types:
.TP
.I /dev/mg
This devices provides the
.B MG
protocol services using the
.I MG-primitives
of the Media Gateway Interface (MGI),
.BR mgi (7),
as interpreted for use with switching components.  This interface is suitable both for use with
other
.BR MG (4)
modules and drivers, as well as the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.BR OpenSwitch (n)
call framework.
.\"
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
.B MG
provides for management of a number of managed objects.  These objects are of a number of types as
follows:
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_DF
The default object.  This object refers to the collection of system-wide defaults.
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_MG
A media gateway control object.  This object refers to media gateway control Stream opened on the
upper multiplex.
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_SE
A communictions session object.
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_LG
A connection leg object.
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_CH
A channel object.   This object referes to a channel Stream on the lower multiplex.
This is a specific lower multiplex driver Stream that provides CH services to the MG multiplexing
driver.  The CH Stream is uniquely identified by its multiplex identifier provided by the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem when the CH Stream is linked under the driver using a
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
operation.
.TP
.B MG_OBJ_TYPE_MX
A multiplex object.  This object refers to a multiplex connection Stream on the lower mutliplex.
This is a specific lower multiplex driver Stream that provides MX services to the MG multiplexing
driver.  The MX Stream is uniquely identified by its multiplex identifier provided by the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem when the MX Stream is linked under the driver using a
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
operation.
.\"
.SS "Management Attributes"
.PP
Each object has associated with it information in the following categories:
.TP
.I Configuration
All of the primary attributes necessary and sufficient for the creation of each object.
.TP
.I Timers
Timers associated with each object.
.TP
.I Options
Options (not necessary for creation) for each object.
.TP
.I State
The state of each object.
.TP
.I Statistics
Statistis associated with each object class in accordance with specifications.
.TP
.I Events
Events associated with each object.  This includes both management events and monitoring events.
.TP
.I Controls
Management controls applicable to each object.
.PP
Each object class is described in each category in the sections below.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All objects must be configured using
.IR I_STR (7)
.BR streamio (7)
input-output control commands before they are usable.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_config {
    ulong type;   /* object type */
    ulong id;     /* object id */
    ulong cmd;    /* configuration command */
    /* followed by specific configuration structure */
} mg_config_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type.  See object types under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies the object instance within the object type.  When
the operation is
.BR MG_ADD ,
this field can be set to zero
.RB ( 0 )
and
.BR mg (4)
will select a new unique object identifier.  When the operation is
.BR MG_GET ,
this field can be set to zero
.RB ( 0 )
and
.BR mg (4)
will return all object configuration of a type that will fit into the supplied buffer.
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the command.  This field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B MG_GET
Get configuration of an object.
This command is only valid with input-output control
.BR MG_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B MG_ADD
Add an object.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR MG_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B MG_CHA
Change an object.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR MG_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B MG_DEL
Delete an object.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR MG_IOCGCONFIG .
.RE
.PP
Input-output controls used to issue configuration commands are as follows:
.TP
.B MG_IOCGCONFIG
Get an object configuration.
.TP
.B MG_IOCSCONFIG
Set an object configuration.  This command may fail if an object is busy or cannot be allocated.
.TP
.B MG_IOCTCONFIG
Test an object configuration.
.TP
.B MG_IOCCCONFIG
Commit an object configuration.  This command will not fail if an object is busy.
.PP
The structures required to specify configuration are as follows (in order of dependency):
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
Although a configuration structure is defined for the default object, there is no need to create or
configure the default object.  This object is configured at the time that the
.BR mg (4)
driver module loads.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_df {
} mg_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Media Gateway"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_mg {
} mg_conf_mg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Communications Session"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_se {
} mg_conf_se_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Connection Leg"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_lg {
    ulong seid;      /* session id */
} mg_conf_lg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_ch {
    ulong tpid;      /* termination point id */
    ulong mxid;      /* multiplex id */
    ulong slot;      /* slot in multiplex */
    ulong encoding;  /* channel encoding */
} mg_conf_ch_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Multiplex"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct mg_conf_mx {
    ulong muxid;     /* lower multiplexing driver id */
} mg_conf_mx_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The MX interface has gone through a number of incarnations and is as yet not
finalized.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This manual page is incomplete and the MX interface has not yet been
finalized.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mgi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This is Version 2 of the Multiplex Interface (MXI).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
