'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH MX-MUX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mx-mux, mx_mux
\- Multiplex (MX) Media Multiplexing Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mx_mux.h
.HP
.BI "int " mx_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MX-MUX
is an implementation of a local multplex control for devices conforming to the
.BR mxi (7)
interface.
.B MX-MUX
provides for the control of the matrix and underlying interfaces and communications facilities.  It
provides pseudo-digital cross-connect as well as multiplex and invert multiplex switching services
to its users and is effectively a virtual DCCS and channel bank.
.PP
.B MX-MUX
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
.B MX
Streams can be linked under the the multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands of
.BR streamio (7).
.B MX
Streams can be configured using
.BR mxi_ioctl (4)
input-output controls.
.\"
.SS "Lower Multiplex Service Interface"
.PP
The MX-MUX driver supports driver Streams linked under the multiplexing driver that provide
channelized access to device or pseudo-device drivers supporting the MX Interface (MXI),
.[
mxi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR mxi (7)
raw multiplex interface.
Each of these Streams linked beneath the MX multiplexing driver represents communications channels
to and from a device or pseudo-device driver.
.PP
Lower multplex Streams are always MX Style 1 or attached MX Style 2 Streams.  That is, MX Style 2
Streams must be attached to a PPA before being linked beneath the MX-MUX multiplexing driver.
.\"
.SS "Upper Multiplex Service Interface"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
The MX-MUX driver is configured by opening MX Streams on a real or pseudo device driver that
provides the MX interface and then linking these MX Streams beneath the MX-MUX multiplexing driver
using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands provided by
.BR streamio (7).
Once, linked, the MX Streams are not immediately available to the MX-MUX driver: they first must be
configured using MX input-output control management commands.  A management control command must be
used to assign a Style 1 minor device number to the lower Stream as well as a global PPA and CLEI.
The Style 1 minor device number is used as a minor device number when opening the MX-MUX driver
using a non-clone minor device to obtain a Style 1 MX Stream.  The global PPA or CLEI can be used by
a Style 1 clone MX-MUX driver device Stream to attach to the associated PPA.
.PP
Lower MX Streams that are linked beneath the multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control can only be managed and connected to by control Streams that performed the
.IR I_LINK (7)
operation.  Lower MX Streams that are linked beneath the multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control can be managed only by the single MX-MUX management Stream.
Note that, to reduce comlexity in the initial driver,
.IR I_LINK (7)
operations are not yet supported.
.PP
Normally the MX-MUX driver is not configured by user-supplied management programs.  Instead, the
.BR mxMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is responsible for performing, maintaining and managing this configuration.
WHen the
.BR mxMIB (8)
SNMP management agent start up, it uses persistent configuration information to open device drivers
providing MX Streams and links them beneath the MX-MUX multiplexing driver and performs minor device
number and global PPA and CLEI assignment.  The
.BR mxMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is also for reporting statistics, operational measurements, events and alarms
in addition to maintaining the configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
driver provides one interface at the lower multiplex: the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e. spans or VT).
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
driver provides three interfaces at the upper multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channles, the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e. spans or VT);
and a management control interface for controlling connection made across the matrix.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Circuit addresses are 32-bit identifiers that are assigned to circuits or circuit groups.  Each
circuit (upper or lower) has a unique identifier within the
.B MX-MUX
driver.  One of the identifiers for a circuit within a circuit group can be used to identify the
circuit group as a whole.  Flags are used in management primitives to indicate whether a particular
identifier refers to a circuit or a circuit group.
.PP
Assignment of circuit identifiers, from requirements for uniqeness, are arbitrary.  For operation
with ISUP, a good choice would be to assign some bit range of the identifier to be identical to the
ISUP circuit identification code for the circuit and the remainder to uniquely identify one like
ISUP CIC from another.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output control commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I mx_stream
or
.I ch_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR mx_ioctl (4)
and
.BR ch_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Drivers providing MX Streams to this MX-MUX driver should also support pseudo-digital or digital
cross-connect directly within the driver.  Only when pseudo-digital cross-connect is needed between
drivers should this matrix be used.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mxi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mx_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/streams/mx/mx
The clone device for opening upper MX Style 2 Streams.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/mx/ch
The clone device for opening upper CH Style 2 Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
driver has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mxi (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR CH-MUX (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
channel stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
MXI interfaces are consistent with MXI Revision 0.9.2,
.[
mxi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR mxi (7).
.PP
CHI interfaces are consistent with CHI Revision 0.9.2.
.[
chi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR chi (7).
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
driver does not appear until
.B strchan
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
