'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mx.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2007/08/06 04:44:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/06 04:44:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mx.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/08/06 04:44:02  brian
.\" - rework of pipe-based emulation modules
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/07/21 20:43:44  brian
.\" - added manual pages, corrections
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/22 07:17:34  brian
.\" - updated documentation for release (make check target)
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:22  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH MX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mx, MX
\- Multiplex (MX) Media Drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mx_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MX
is an implementation of a local multiplex control for devices conforming to
the
.BR mxi (7)
interface.
.B MX
provides for the control of the matrix and underlying interfaces and communication facilities.  It
provides digital cross-connect switching services to its users and is effectively a virtual DCCS and
channel bank.
.PP
.B MX
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
.B MX
Streams can be linked under the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide multiplex services to the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver.
.B MX
Streams can be configured using
.BR mxi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.SS "Lower Multiplex Service Interface"
.PP
The MX drivers supports driver Streams linked under the multiplexing driver that provide channelized
access to device or pseudo-device drivers supporting either the MX Interface (MXI),
.[
mxi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR mxi (7),
raw multiplex interface,
or CH Interface (CHI),
.[
chi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR chi (7),
raw channel interface.  Each of these Streams linked beneath the MX multiplexing driver represents
communications channels to and from a device or pseudo-device driver.
.\"
.SS "Upper Multiplex Service Interface"
.PP
.B MX
provides the following Stream types that are directly compatible with the Stream types provided by
other
.BR MX
and
.BR CH
drivers.  To select one of these Stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/mx
This device provides a protocol service interface using the MX-primitives of the Multiplex Interface
(MXI),
.[
mxi revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR mxi (7),
as interpreted for use with local switching drivers described in
.BR mxi_mx (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as well as with the
.BR mg (4)
driver using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/ch
This device provides the
protocol service interface using the CH-primitives of the Channel Interface
(CHI),
.[
chi revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR chi (7),
as interpreted for use with local switching drivers described in
.BR chi_ch (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as well as with the
communications module for ISO networking,
.BR cd (4),
and the communications module for SS7 networking,
.BR sdl (4),
and the communications module for ISDN networking,
.RB q920 (4).
.\"
.SS Drivers
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B MX
driver is the switching workhorse of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.  Both MXI and CHI Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  Both MXI and CHI Streams
can be linked on the lower multiplex.  Any channel of any Stream, whether upper or lower, can be
digitally cross-connected through the multiplex to any other channel, in either direction,
independently.  (This, of course, supports LEA monitoring functions.)
.PP
The
.B MX
driver can perform simply isochronous conversion functions (e.g. mu-law to a-law), digital padding,
echo cancellation, compression/decompression, minor rate adaption (e.g, 8-bit A-law into 5-bit GSM),
that do not cause flow control and jitter buffering considerations as it performs simply matrix
operations.  Pre-established tones or canned announcements can be supported by the driver. Dynamic
announcements need to be provided by an external module or in hardware.  Complex operations such as
HDLC conversion need to be provided upstream or in hardware.
.PP
The
.B MX
driver is intended to support single-rate and multi-rate channels; however, single-rate and
multi-rate connection must match and no multi-rate conversion will be performed.  The purpose of the
.B MX
driver is to perform simple digital cross-connect and do it very fast.
.PP
The
.B MX
driver can be modelled as a hardware
.I Time-Space-Time
switch, where the
.I Space
stage is performed primarily in software.  (When the driver connects two channels from the same
lower multiplex, the data path may be through hardware instead of software.)
.PP
The
.B MX
driver, however, is able to perform channel insertion and deletion from a span.  For example, an
entire E1 or T1 span can be connected, channel for channel, to another E1 or T1 span.  The drivers
has the ability to remove or insert one or more channels on either side of the span connection.  The
purpose of channel insertion and deletion is to pull signalling channels out of a span, particularly
for ISO networking, ISDN primary rate connections and SS7 signalling.
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
At boot time, or when a new span or circuit is brought into service, a management program opens a
device or pseudo-device driver to obtain a Stream representing the new channel or span an links the
Stream beneath the MX multiplexing driver. Input-output controls are then used to assign the channel
or span (and time-slots within the span) to circuit identification numbers within the matrix.  These
channel identification numbers and the mapping to specific hardware should be maintained in
configuration files.
.PP
For example, when a T1 span is put into service on a V401P card, the management program opens a
Stream on the V401P MX device that represents the T1 span, attaches the Stream to the T1 span, and
then links the Stream beneath the
.B MX
driver.  A configuration table is used to determine the circuit number assignments for the card and
T1 span selected.  An input-output control is issued to the
.B MX
driver with the multiplex index of the linked span, and the circuit number assignments for the span.
This input-output control also identifies other particulars about the span (number of channels, DS0
or DS0A, etc).
The
.B MX
driver provides the ability for management programs to determine the lower multiplex identifier that
is associated with any circuit or circuit range.  This allow the management program to perform a
.IR I_PLINK (7)
operation and close the Stream.  It can later discover the multiplex ID from the circuit assignment
(contained in the configuration table) with an input-output control to the MX driver, so that it
knows the multiplex ID to use to remove the circuit or span from service with an
.IR I_PUNLINK (7)
operation.
.PP
As another example, an Ephemeral connection manager process that is listening for Ephemeral
connection requests on the connection management Stream of the
.BR mg (4)
driver, receives a request to establish an RTP Stream to a remote host.  The Ephemeral connection
manager opens a
.BR rawip (4)
device, and pushes the
.BR rtp (4)
module over the device.
The
.BR rtp (4)
module is set to convert the media Stream to that appropriate for the channel to which the Ephemeral
connection will ultimately occur, and the Stream, which provides a CHI interface, is linked under
the MX driver.  It assigns a circuit identification number with an input-output control.  The
Ephemeral connection manager then requests that the
.B MX
driver connect the Ephemeral connection to a Gateway circuit through the
matrix.
.PP
While CHI and MXI Streams on the lower multiplex are attached to their circuits or connections for
the full time that they are linked, CHI and MXI Streams on the upper multiplex are not so.  When a
user-level program opens a Stream on the upper multiplex, it remains unattached to any particular
channel.  CHI or MXI primitives are used to connect the upper multiplex Stream to either a lower or
another upper multiplex Stream.
.PP
Upper multiplex Streams provide the ability to terminate circuit connections within another STREAMS
module or driver above the MX driver.  For example, a number of MXI Streams can be opened on the
upper multiplex and are identified by their device numbers and any assigned termination identifiers.
These Streams, which represent unconnected circuits, can then be linked under a
tones-and-announcements driver.  When a switching process such as the
.BR mg (4)
driver wishes to provide a tone or announcement to a circuit or an ephemeral connection, it request
that the MX driver connect the circuit or ephemeral connection to one on the upper multiplex that
terminates at the tones-and-announcements driver.  By sending control messages to the
tones-and-announcements driver, the
.BR mg (4)
driver can then play progress tones or announcements to the user at the other end of the locally
terminated connection.  .\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B MX
driver provides two interfaces at the lower multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels and the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e, spans).
.PP
The
.B MX
driver provides three interfaces at the upper multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels, the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e, spans); and a management control
interface for controlling connections made across the matrix.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Circuit addresses are 32-bit identifiers that are assigned to circuits or circuit groups.  Each
circuit (upper or lower) has a unique identifier within the
.B MX
driver.  One of the identifiers for a circuit within a circuit group can be used to identify the
circuit group as a whole.  Flags are used in management primitives to indicate whether a particular
identifier refers to a circuit or a circuit group.
.PP
Assignment of circuit identifiers, assign from requirements for uniqueness, are arbitrary.  For
operation with ISUP, a good choice would be to assign some bit range of the identifier to be
identical to the ISUP circuit identification code for the circuit and the remainder to uniquely
identifier one like ISUP CIC assignment from another.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I mx_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR mx_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
For performance reasons, it might not be advantageous to pass SS7, ISDN and ISO signalling channels
through the software switch matrix.  To permit signalling channels to be subject to a different set
of flow control rules and priorities, SS7, ISDN and ISO signalling channels can sometimes be dropped
and inserted into a channel group directly from the hardware driver (e.g, V401P driver).
.PP
Drivers providing MX or CH streams to this MX driver should also support digital-cross connect
directly within the driver.  Only when digital cross-connect is needed between drivers should this
matrix be used.
.PP
Although the examples under USAGE describe linking and unlinking of Streams to support dynamic
switching, it is discouraged for the obvious diminishing returns to scale impacts.  Streams should
be linked in advance and the ability of the CHI and MXI interfaces to request enabling and disabling
of Streams and connection and disconnection of channels used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mxi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mx_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/mx .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MX
drivers have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR mxconfd (8),
.BR mxi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B MX
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
MG stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
MXI interfaces are consistent with MXI Revision 0.9.2.
.PP
The
.B MX
driver does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
