'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mx_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008/01/05 00:00:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/01/05 00:00:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mx_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008/01/05 00:00:27  brian
.\" - added/updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mx_ioctl
\- Multiplex (MX) Device \- IO Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg;
.HP
.BI "int " mx_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/mx\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" mx_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MX-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR mx (4)
driver using the IO controls defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The
.BR mx (4)
driver is an implementation of a TDM Multiplex (MX) protocol as defined in
ITU-T Recommendation M.3100.
.B MX-IOCTL
provides the definition of the managed objects for the
.B mx (4)
driver in accordance with the managed object model in
ITU-T Recommdnation M.3100.
.PP
.B MX
is am implementation of a Multiplex
.RB ( MX )
driver.
.\"
.SS "Protocol Service Interface"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
.B MX
proivides for management of a number of managed objects.  These objects are of
a number of types as follows:
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_DF
The default object.
This object refers to the system-wide collection of defaults and other
global management information.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_MU
A user object.
A user object is a service access point (SAP) at which users of the multiplex
obtain service from the multiplex.
A user object can be associated with a physical point of appearance
corresponding to a complete span, set of channels within one span, or
individual channel.
A user object is identified by the device number associated with the MX user
object.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_SG
A synchronization group.
An MX synchronization group is a group of synchronization objects that can act
as a source or sink of PDH timing information.  One synchronization object
within the group and possibly one span within the synchronization object is
selected as providing PDH timing information for the other objects in the
group.  Each synchronization group is identified by its own idenitfier.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_SS
A synchronization set.
An MX synchronization set is an equipment card or other span termination
point container which provides for the dystribute of PDH timing information.
Each syncrhonization set belongs to one and only one syncrhonization group.
Each synchronization set is identified by its own global identifier.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_SP
A span object.
A span object provides all of the management information necessary for the
configuration and management of a T1 (J1) or E1 span.  Each span object
belongs to one and only one containing syncrhonization object.
A span object is identified by its global synchronization object identifier
and a span index within the sycnhronization object.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_CH
A Channel object.
A channel object provides all of the management information necessary for the
configuration and management of channels within a T1 (J1) or E1 span.  Each
channel object belongs to one an donly one containing span object.
A channel object is identified within a span by its time slot number (1 to 24
for T1(J1) and 1 to 31 for E1).
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_XC
A cross-connect object.
A cross-connect object provides all of the management information necessary
for the configuration and management of a cross-connection between one or more
channels in a T1 (J1) or E1 span.
A cross-connect object is identified by the distinguished names of the
channels that the cross connection provides.
.\"
.TP
.B MX_OBJ_TYPE_MX
A lower MX object.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
All objects must be configured using
.I I_STR
.I I_STR
.BR streamio (7)
.BR ioctl (2)
calls before they are usable.  The structures required to specify
configuration are as follows (in order of dependency).
.\"
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
Although a configuration structure is defined for the default object, there is
no need to configure the default object.  This object is configured at the
time that the module loads.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct mx_conf_df {
} mx_conf_df_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
At least one Syncrhonization Group object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_SG
must exist before any other objects (aside from the default object) can be
created or configured.
.PP
The Syncrhonization Group object represents a group of related PDH timing
sources or sinks in a collection.  The PDH timing sources and sinks are
related in that one syncrhonization object within the group can act as a
source while the other synchronization objects within the group can act as a
sink.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for Syncrhonization Groups is
formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct mx_conf_sg {
} mx_conf_sg_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
At least one Synchronization object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_SS
must exist before any span or objects contained by a span may be created or
configured.
.PP
The Syncrhonization Set is a group of spans that share the same internal
or external PDH timing synchronization source or bus.  Each synchronization
object also belongs to a syncrhonization group.  The synchronization object
has a priority within the syncrhonization group.  There may be constraints on
the number of synchronization objects which are allowed to be at a given
priority.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for Synchronization Sets is
formated as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct mx_conf_ss {
	struct simple_name group;
	uint32_t priority;
} mx_conf_ss_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I group
the name of the syncrhonization group object to which this synchronization
object belongs.
.\"
.TP
.I priority
the priority of this synchronization object within the group.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Span"
.PP
A Span object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_SP
must exist before contained channel objects may be created or configured.
.PP
The Span object represents a T1(J1) or E1 transmission facility.  Each span
belongs to a synchronization object and has a span number within that object.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for Span objects is formated as
follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct mx_conf_sp {
	struct simple_name sync;
	uint32_t number;
} mx_conf_sp_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sync
the name of the synchronization object to which this span object belongs.
.TP
.I number
the number of the span within the syncrhonization object. 
.PP
If there is only one span in a syncrhonization set and the synchronization set
would be the only set in a synchronization group (i.e. the span is
disconnected from all PDH timing buses), it is not necessary to assign the
span to a syncrhonization set and the
.I sync
member can be zero and the null string, and the
.I number
member can be zero or one.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Channel"
.PP
A Channel object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_CH
must exist before contained channel objects may be created or configured.
.PP
The Channel object represents a T1(J1) or E1 transmission facility TDM time
slot.  Each channel belongs to a span and has a time slot number within the
span.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for Channel objects is formated as
follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct mx_conf_ch {
	struct simple_name span;
	uint32_t timeslot;
} mx_conf_ch_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I span
the name of the span object to which this channel object belongs.
.TP
.I timeslot
the timeslot of the channel within the span object.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
A Cross-Connect object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_XC
represents an entire span, fractional span, or channel cross-connect within
the system.
.\"
.\"
.SS "User"
.PP
A User object of type
.BR MX_OBJ_TYPE_MU
represents a CH or MX user object within the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH TIMERS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH STATISTICS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EVENTS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTROLS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Group"
.PP
.SS "Synchronization Set"
.PP
.SS "Span"
.PP
.SS "Channel"
.PP
.SS "Cross-Connect"
.PP
.SS "User"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mx (4),
.BR mxi (7),
.BR mxmib (8).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH VERSIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
