% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=120
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: cdi.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2008-08-03 05:05:20 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-08-03 05:05:20 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=120
@c %**start of header
@setfilename cdi.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Communications Device Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* CDI: (cdi).                   Communication Device Interface Specification
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Communications Device Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the NCR Compten Communications Device Interface.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release
@value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} published by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7
Corporation}.  This specification was originally published by NRC Compten.


Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org,Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*


All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name OpenSS7
Corporation not be use in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation
makes no representations about the suitability of this documentation for any
purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to
this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Communications Device Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle UNIX International
@subtitle OSI Work Group
@subtitle Revision: 2.0.0
@subtitle August 20, 1991
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@subsubheading Published by:

@center OpenSS7 Corporation
@center 1469 Jefferys Crescent
@center Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1
@center Canada
@sp 1
@center for further information, contact:
@center OpenSS7 Corporation
@sp 1
@center Phone: +1 780 490 1141
@center Fax: +1 780 490 1241
@sp 1

@ignore
@subsubheading International Offices:

@multitable @columnfractions .33 .33 .34
@item

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Asian/Pacific Office @*
Shinei Bldg. 1F @*
Kameido @*
Koto-ku, Tokyo 136 @*
Japan

@noindent
Phone: (81) 3-3636-1122 @*
Fax: (81) 3-3636-1121

@tab

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Australian Office @*
22/74 - 76 Monarch St. @*
Cremorne, NSW 2090 @*
Australia

@noindent
Phone: (61) 2-953-7838 @*
Fax: (61) 2 953-3542

@tab

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Pacific Basin Office @*
Cintech II @*
75 Science Park Drive @*
Singapore Science Park @*
Singapore 0511 @*
Singapore

@noindent
Phone: (32) 2-672-3700 @*
Fax: (32) 2-672-4415

@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item

@noindent
UNIX International @*
European Office @*
25, Avenue de Beaulieu @*
1160 Brussels @*
Belgium

@noindent
Phone: (65) 776-0313 @*
Fax: (65) 776-0421

@tab

@noindent
@ 

@end multitable
@end ignore

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org,Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*


@noindent
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name OpenSS7
Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation
makes no representations about the suitability of this documentation for any
purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

@noindent
@b{OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA
OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
DOCUMENTATION.}

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
This document is based on the UNIX System Laboratories Data Link Provider
Interface (DLPI) specification which was used with permission by the UNIX
International OSI Work Group (UI OSIWG).  Participation in the UI OSIWG is open
to UNIX International members and other interested parties.  For further
information contact UNIX International at the addresses above.

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation is making this documentation available as a reference point
for the industry.  While OpenSS7 Corporation believes that these interfaces are
well defined in this release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to
products conforming to the interfaces being made available from UNIX System
Laboratories or UNIX International members.

@subsubheading Trademarks:

@noindent
UNIX@registeredsymbol{} is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories in
the United States and other countries.
X/Open(TM) is a trademark of the X/Open Company Ltd. in the UK and other
countries.
OpenSS7(TM) is a trademark of OpenSS7 Corporation in the United States and other
countries.

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@subsubheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*
All Rights Reserved.

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@noindent
This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and
distributed under licenses restricting its use, copying, distribution and
de-compilation.  No part of this software or related documentation may be
reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written authorization of
the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.

@noindent
The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that the
recipient will protect this information and keep it confidential, and will not
disclose the information contained in this document without the written
permission of its owner.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise
this software and documentation for any reason, including but not limited to,
conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization of
advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to
herein.  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no
obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim {name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval {name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr {name}
@code{\name\}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta {name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm {name}
@code{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc {name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Communications Device Interface
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::
* Model of the Communications Device Layer::
* CDI Services::
* CDI Primitives::
* Allowable Sequence of CDI Primitives::
* Precedence of CDI Primitives::
* Guidelines for Protocol Independent CDS Users::
* Required Information for CDS Provider-Specific Addenda::
* CDI Header File::
* Glossary of CDI Terms and Acronyms::
* References::
* Index::
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This document specifies a STREAMS kernel-level instantiation of the ISO Data Link Service Definition DIS
8886@footnote{International Organization for Standardization, "Data Link Service Definition for Open Systems
Interconnection," DIS 8886, February 1987.} and Logical Link Control DIS 8802/2 (LLC)@footnote{ International
Organization for Standardization, "Logical Link Control," DIS 8802/2, 1985.}.  Where the two standards do not conform,
DIS 8886 prevails.

The Communications Device Interface (CDI) enables a communications device service user to access and use any of a
variety of conforming communications device service providers without special knowledge of the provider's protocol.
Specifically, the interface is intended to support X.25 LAPB, BX.25 level 2, SDLC, ISDN LAPD, Ethernet(TM), CSMA/CD,
FDDI, token ring, token bus, and Bisync.  Among the expected communications device service users are implementations of
the OSI network data link layer.

The interface specifies access to communications device service providers, and does not define a specific protocol
implementation.  Thus, issues of network management, protocol performance, and performance analysis tools are beyond the
scope of this document and should be addressed by specific implementations of a communications device provider.
However, accompanying each provider implementation should be information that describes the protocol-specific behaviour
of that provider.  Currently, there are plans to come up with a set of implementor's agreements/guidelines for common
communications device providers.  These agreements will address issues such as CDSAP address space, subsequent address,
PPA access and control, QOS, supported services, etc.

This specification assumes the reader is familiar with OSI Reference Model[4] terminology, OSI Data Link Services, and
STREAMS.

@section Document Organization

This specification is organized as follows:

@itemize @bullet

@item @ref{Model of the Communications Device Layer},
presents background on the structure of the communications device layer of the OSI Reference Model, and explains the
intended architecture in the STREAMS environment.  Communications Device addressing concepts are also presented.

@item @ref{CDI Services},
presents an overview of the services provided by CDI.

@item @ref{CDI Primitives},
describes the detailed syntax and semantics of each CDI primitive that crosses the communications device interface.

@item @ref{Allowable Sequence of CDI Primitives},
describes the allowable sequence of CDI primitives that may be issued across the interface.

@item @ref{Precedence of CDI Primitives},
presents a summary of the precedence of CDI primitives as they are queued by the CDS provider and/or CDS user.

@item @ref{Guidelines for Protocol Independent CDS Users},
summarizes guidelines a CDS user implementation must follow to be fully protocol-independent.

@item @ref{Required Information for CDS Provider-Specific Addenda},
presents the information that should be documented for each CDS provider implementation.

@item @ref{CDI Header File},
presents the header file containing CDI structure and constant definitions needed by a CDS user or provider implemented
to use the interface.

@item @ref{Glossary of CDI Terms and Acronyms},
presents a Glossary of CDI Terms and Acronyms.

@end itemize

@node Model of the Communications Device Layer
@chapter Model of the Communications Device Layer

@menu
* Model of the Service Interface::
* Modes of Communication::
* CDI Addressing::
@end menu

The communications device layer (layer 1 in the OSI Reference Model) is responsible for the transmission and error-free
delivery of bits of information over a physical communications medium.

The model of the communications device layer is presented here to describe concepts that are used throughout the
specification of CDI.  It is described in terms of an interface architecture, as well as addressing concepts needed to
identify different components of that architecture.  The description of the model assumes familiarity with the OSI
Reference Model.

@node Model of the Service Interface
@section Model of the Service Interface

Each layer of the OSI Reference Model has two standards:

@itemize @bullet
@item one that defines the services provided by the layer, and
@item one that defines the protocol through which layer services are provided.
@end itemize

CDI is an implementation of the first type of standard.  It specifies an interface to the services of the communications
device layer.  @figref{1} depicts the abstract view of CDI.

@figuresized{cdi_fig1,1,Abstact View of CDI,4in}

The communications device interface is the boundary between the data link and physical layers of the OSI Reference
Model.  The data link layer entity is the user of the services of the communications device interface (CDS user), and
the communications device entity is the provider of those services (CDS provider).  This interface consists of a set of
primitives that provide access to the communications device layer services, plush the rules for using those primitives
(state transition rules).  A communications device interface service primitive might request a particular service or
indicate a pending event.

To provide uniformity among the various UNIX system networking products, an effort is underway to develop service
interfaces that map to the OSI Reference Model.  A set of kernel-level interfaces, based on the STREAMS development
environment, constitute a major portion of this effort.  The service primitives that make up these interfaces are
defined as STREAMS messages that are transferred between the user and provider of the service.  CDI is one such
kernel-level interface, and is targeted for STREAMS protocol modules that either use or provide communications device
services.  Also, user programs that wish to access a STREAMS-based communications device provider directly may do so
using the @manref{putmsg(2)} and @manref{getmsg(2)} system calls.

Referring to the abstract view of CDI (@figref{1}), the CDS provider is configured as a STREAMS driver, and the CDS user
accesses the provider using @manref{open(2)} to establish a stream to the CDS provider.  The stream acts as a
@cpindex Communication endpoint
communication endpoint between a CDS user and the CDS provider.  After the stream is created, the CDS user and CDS
provider communicate via tht messages presented later in this specification.

CDI is intended to free communications device users from specific knowledge of the characteristics of the communications
device provider.  Specifically, the definition of CDI hopes to achieve the goal of allowing a CDS user to be implemented
independent of a specific communications medium.  Any communications device provider (supporting any communications
medium) that conforms to the CDI specification may be substituted beneath the CDS user to provide communications device
services.  Support of a new CDS provider should not require any changes to the implementation of the CDS user.

@node Modes of Communication
@section Modes of Communication

The communications device interface supports full-duplex and half-duplex communications on a medium.

For half-duplex communications, either the input section or the output section can be active at any point in time, but
not both.  For full-duplex communications, both the input section and the output section are both active or both
inactive at any point in time.  A particular CDS provider for a half-duplex device can give the appearance of a
full-duplex device for the purposes of the communications device interface presented by the CDS provider.  The
communications device interface provides a specialized set of services for half-duplex communications.

The communications device interface supports three output styles: unacknowledged output, acknowledged output and paced
output.

Unacknowleged output is message-oriented and supports data transfer in self-contained units with no logical relationship
required between units.  Because there is no acknowledgement of each data unit transmission, this output style can be
unreliable in the most general case.  However, a specific CDS provider can provide assurance that messages will not be
lost, duplicated or reordered.

Acknowledged output is message-oriented and supports data transfer in self-contained units with no logical relationship
required between units.  Because there is acknowledgement of each data unit transmission, this output style can be
reliable in the most general case.  Specific CDS providers can provide assurance that messages will not be lost,
duplicated or reordered.

Paced output is message-oriented and supports data transfer in self-contained units with no logical relationship
required between units.  Because there is no peer acknowledgement of each data unit transmission, this output style can
be unreliable in the most general case.  However, a specific CDS provider can provide assurance that messages will not
be lost, duplicated or reordered.  Acknowledgements are used to pacing output, and are typically issued once the data
unit has been transmittted on the medium.

@menu
* Connection-mode Service (1)::
* Connectionless-mode Service::
* Acknowledged Connectionless-mode Service::
@end menu

@cpindex Connectionless mode
The communications device interface supports three modes of communication: connection, connectionless and
acknowledged connectionless.  The connection mode
@cpindex Connection mode
is circuit-oriented and enables data to be transferred over a pre-established connection in a sequenced manner.  Data
may be lost or corrupted in this service mode, however, due to provider-initiated resynchronization or connection
aborts.

@cpindex Connectionless mode
The connectionless mode is message-oriented and supports data transfer in self-contained units with no logical
relationship required between units.  Because there is no acknowledgement of each data unit transmission, this service
mode can be unreliable in the most general case.  However, a specific CDS provider can provide assurance that messages
will not be lost, duplicated, or reordered.

@cpindex Connectionless mode
The acknowledged connectionless mode provides the means by which a communications device user can send data and request
the return of data at the same time.  Although the exchange service is connectionless, in-sequence delivery is
guaranteed for data sent by the initiating station.  The data unit transfer is point-to-point.

@node Connection-mode Service (1)
@subsection Connection-mode Service
@cpindex Connection mode
The connection-mode service is characterized by four phases of communication:
@cpindex Connection establishment
local management, connection establishment, data transfer, and connection release.

@subsubsection Local Management
This phase enables a CDS user to initialize a stream for use in communication and establish an identity with the CDS
provider.

@subsubsection Connection Establishment
@cpindex Called CDS user
@cpindex Calling CDS user
@cpindex Connection establishment
This phase enables two CDS users to establish a communications device connection between them to exchange data.  One
user (the calling CDS user) initiates the connection
@cpindex Connection establishment
establishment procedures, while another user (the called CDS user) waits for incoming connect requests.  The called CDS
user is identified by an address associated with its stream (as will be discussed shortly).

A called CDS user may either accept or deny a request for communications device connection.  If the request is accepted,
a connection is established between the CDS users and they enter into the data transfer phase.  For both the calling and
called CDS users, only one connection may be established per stream.  Thus, the
@cpindex Communication endpoint
stream is the communication endpoint for a communications device connection.  The called CDS user may choose to accept a
connection on the stream where it received the connect request, or it may open a new stream to the CDS provider and
accept the connection on this new, responding stream.  By accepting the connection on a separate stream, the initial
stream can be designated as a listening stream through which all connect requests will be processed.  As each request
arrives,
@cpindex Communication enpoint
a new stream (communication endpoint) can be opened to handle the connection, enabling subsequent requests to be queued
on a single stream until they can be processed.

@subsubsection Data Transfer
In this phase, the CDS users are considered peers and may exchange data simultaneously in both directions over an
established communications device connection.  Either CDS user may send data to its peer CDS user at any time.  Data set
by a CDS user is guaranteed to be delivered to the remote user in the order in which it was sent.

@subsubsection Connection Release
This phase enables either the CDS user, or the CDS provider, to break an established connection.  The release procedure
is considered abortive, so any data that has not reached the destination user when the connection is released may be
discarded by the CDS provider.

@node Connectionless-mode Service
@subsection Connectionless-mode Service
@cpindex Connection establishment
@cpindex Connectionless mode
The connectionless mode service does not use the connection establishment and
@cpindex Connection mode
release phases of the connection-mode service.  The local management phase is still required to initialize a stream.
Once initialized, however, the connectionless data transfer phase is immediately entered.  Because there is no
established connection, however, the connectionless data transfer phase requires the CDS user to identify the
destination of each data unit to be transferred.  The destination CDS user is identified by the address associated with
that user (as will be discussed shortly).

Connectionless data transfer does not guarantee that data units will be delivered to the destination user in the order
in which they were sent.  Furthermore, it does not guarantee that a given data unit will reach the destination CDS user,
although a given CDS provider may provide assurance that data will not be lost.

@node Acknowledged Connectionless-mode Service
@subsection Acknowledged Connectionless-mode Service
@cpindex Connection establishment
@cpindex Connectionless mode
The acknowledged connectionless mode service also does not use the connection
@cpindex Connection mode
establishment and release phases of the connection-mode service.  The local management phase is still required to
initialize a stream.  Once initialized, the acknowledged connectionless data transfer phase is immediately entered.

Acknowledged connectionless data transfer guarantees that data units will be delivered to the destination user in the
order in which they were sent.  A data link user entity can send a data unit to the destination CDS user, request a
previously prepared data unit from the destination CDS user, or exchange data units.

@node CDI Addressing
@section CDI Addressing

@menu
* Physical Attachment Identification::
* CDS Provider Styles::
@end menu

Each user of CDI must establish an identity to communicate with other communications device users.  The CDS user must
identify the physical medium over which it will communicate.  This is particularly evident on systems that are attached
to multiple physical media.  @figref{2} illustrates the identification approach, which is explained below.

@figuresized{cdi_fig2,2,Communications Device Addressing Components,4in}

@node Physical Attachment Identification
@subsection Physical Attachment Identification

The physical point of attachment (PPA in @figref{2}) is the point at which a system attaches itself to a physical
communications medium (a channel, facility or network interface).  All communication on that physical medium funnels
through the PPA associated with that physical medium.  On systems where a CDS provider supports more than one physical
medium, the CDS user must identify which medium it will communicate through.  A PPA is identified by a unique PPA
identifier.

Unlike the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI), which also uses the concept of a PPA, CDI does not define a SAP for a
CDS user.  Once a stream has been associated with a PPA, all messages received on that medium are delivered to the
attached CDS user.  Only one major/minor device number combination (Stream head) can be associated with a given PPA at
any point in time.  Attempting to attach a second stream to the same PPA to which another stream is attached will fail.

@node CDS Provider Styles
@subsection CDS Provider Styles

Two styles of CDS provider are defined by CDI, distinguished by the way they enable a CDS user to choose a particular
PPA.

@menu
* Style 1 CDS Provider::
* Style 2 CDS Provider::
@end menu

@node Style 1 CDS Provider
@subsubsection Style 1 CDS Provider

The @dfn{Style 1} provider assigns a PPA based on the major/minor device the CDS user opened.  One possible
implementation of a @dfn{Style 1} driver would reserve a major device for each PPA the communications device driver
would support.  This would allow the STREAMS clone open feature to be used for each PPA configured.  This style of
provider is appropriate when few PPAs will be supported.

For example, a PCI card that supports two V.35 ports could assign a major device number to the card driver and a minor
device number to each of the ports on each card in the system.  To establish a stream to a CDS provider for a given
port, the minor device number 1 or 2 could be opened for port 1 or 2 on card 1, minor device number 3 or 4 could be
opened for port 1 or 2 on card 2, and so on.  One major device number for the driver could easily support 127 cards in a
system, which is not possible for typical PCI systems and, therefore, is ample.

@dfn{Style 1} providers do not use the CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
or CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
primitives and when freshly opened are in
the CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
state.  That is, as illustrated in @figref{2}, the @dfn{Style 1} CDS provider associates the stream with the PPA during
the @manref{open(2)} call.

@node Style 2 CDS Provider
@subsubsection Style 2 CDS Provider

If the number of PPAs a CDS provider will support is large, a @dfn{Style 2} provider implementation is more suitable.
The @dfn{Style 2} provider requires a CDS user to explicitly identify the desired PPA using a special attach service
primitive.  For a @dfn{Style 2} driver, the @manref{open(2)} creates a stream between the CDS user and CDS provider, and
the attach primitive then associates a particular PPA with that stream.  The format of the PPA identifier is specific to
the CDS provider, and should be described in the provider-specific addendum documentation.

The CDS user uses the support primitives
(CD_ATTACH_REQ,
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
CD_ENABLE_REQ)
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
to associate a stream with a given Physical Point of Appearance.  @dfn{Style 2} CDS providers, when freshly opened, are
in the CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
state.  That is, the @dfn{Style 2} CDS provider does not associated the stream with the PPA during the @manref{open(2)}
call, but only later when the CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive is issued by the CDS user.

@node CDI Services
@chapter CDI Services

@menu
* Local Management Services::
* Device Management Services::
* Data Transfer Services::
* Duplex Management Services::
* Event Services::
* An Example::
@end menu

The various features of the CDI interface are defined in terms of the services provided by the CDS provider, and the
individual primitives that may flow between the CDS user and CDS provider.

The communications device interface supports two modes of communication (full-duplex and half-duplex) and three output
styles (unacknowledged, acknowledged and paced).

@cpindex Full-Duplex
The full-duplex mode permits both the input and output sections of the communications device to be active at the same
time; whereas,
@cpindex Half-Duplex
the half-duplex mode only permits either the input or output section of the communications device to be active.

@cpindex Unacknowledged output
The unacknowledged output style provides no acknowledgement for transmitted data units to the CDS user.  This is the
typical arrangement for CDS users that are expecting a best-effort delivery of transmitted data units, or that are not
concerned about recovery of loss of data units, either because the CDS provider provides a reliable delivery of data
units, or because the CDS user expects to provide its own mechanisms should reliable data delivery be required.  For
example, LLC Type 1 provides just such an unacknowledged delivery of transmitted data units.

@cpindex Acknowledged output
The acknowledged output style provides separate acknowledgement of each transmitted data unit.  This is the typical
arrangement for CDS users that are expecting a reliable delivery of transmitted data units and require acknowledgement
of their delivery.  For example, LLC Type 2 provides just such an acknowledgement of transmitted data units.

@cpindex Paced output
The paced output style provides acknowledgements of transmitted data units, but only as timing hints to the CDS user.
This is the typical arrangement where a CDS provider can provide an acknowledgement when the data is actually
transmitted on the physical medium and such acknowledgement can be used a timing hints to the CDS user.  For example,
this is possible with LLC Type 1, where the CDS provider driver implementation has knowledge of when the transmitted
data units are emmitted to the medium.

@ignore
@cpindex Connectionless mode
The communications device interface supports three modes of service: connection,
@cpindex Connection mode
connectionless and acknowledged connectionless.  The connection mode is circuit-oriented and enables data to be
transferred over an established connection in a sequenced manner.  The connectionless mode is message-oriented and
supports data transfer in self-contained units with no logical relationship required between units.  The acknowledged
connectionless mode is message-oriented and guarantees that data units will be delivered to the destination user in the
order in which they were sent.  This specification also defines a set of local management functions that apply to all
modes of service.

The XID and TEST services that are supported by CDI are listed below.  The CDI user can issue an XID or TEST request to
the CDS provider.  The Provider will transmit an XID or TEST frame to the peer CDS provider.  On receiving a response,
the CDS provider sends a confirmation primitive to the CDS user.  On receiving an XID or TEST frame from the peer CDS
provider, the local CDS provider sends up an XID or TEST indication primitive to the CDS user.  The user must respond
with an XID or TEST response frame to the provider.
@end ignore

The services are tabulated below and described more fully in the remainder of this section.

@tabfig{cdi_tab1,1a,Cross-Reference of CDS Services and Primitives}
@tabfig{cdi_tab2,1b,Cross-Reference of CDS Services and Primitives}
@tabfig{cdi_tab3,1c,Cross-Reference of CDS Services and Primitives}

@node Local Management Services
@section Local Management Services

@menu
* Information Reporting Service::
* Attach Service::
* Detach Service::
* Multiplex Name Service::
@end menu

The local management services apply to both full- and half-duplex operation as well as unacknowledged, acknowledged and
paced output styles.  These services, that fall outside the scope of standards specifications, define the method for
intitializing a stream that is connected to a CDS provider.  CDS provider information reporting services are also
supported by the local management facilities.

@node Information Reporting Service
@subsection Information Reporting Service

This service provides information about the CDI stream to the CDS user.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_INFO_REQ}:
The message CD_INFO_REQ
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ
requests the CDS provider to return operating information about the stream.

@item @b{CD_INFO_ACK}:
The CDS provider returns the information in a CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the information request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal message sequence is illustrated in @figref{3}.

@figuresized{cdi_fig3,3,Message Flow: Information Reporting,4in}

In @figref{3}, the CDS user requests information with a CD_INFO_REQ message and the local CDS provider responds with
the requested information in a CD_INFO_ACK message.

@node Attach Service
@subsection Attach Service

The attach service assigns a physical point of attachment (PPA) to a stream.  This service is required for @dfn{Style 2}
CDS providers (@pxref{Physical Attachment Identification}) to specify the physical medium over which communication will
occur.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_ATTACH_REQ}:
The CDS user requests the attach service with a CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates success with a CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates failure with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal message sequence is illustrated in @figref{4}.

@figuresized{cdi_fig4,4,Message Flow: Attaching a stream to a Physical Line,4in}

In @figref{4}, the CDS user issues a CD_ATTACH_REQ message for a Style 2 CDS provider which results in the
association of the stream with the requested PPA and possible enabling of the medium associated with the PPA.  The CDS
provider acknowledges the attach with a CD_OK_ACK message.

@node Detach Service
@subsection Detach Service

The detach service disassociates a physical point of attachment (PPA) with a stream.  This service is required for
@dfn{Style 2} CDS providers (@pxref{Physical Attachment Identification}) to disassociate the physical medium from the
stream over which communication has occurred.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_DETACH_REQ}:
The CDS user request the detach service with a CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates success with a CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates failure with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal message sequence is illustrated in @figref{5}.

@figuresized{cdi_fig5,5,Message Flow: Detaching a Stream from a Physical Line,4in}

In @figref{5}, the CDS user issues a CD_DETACH_REQ message for a Style 2 CDS provider which results in the
disassociation of the stream with the attached PPA and possible disabling of the medium associated with the PPA.
The CDS provider acknowledges the detach with a CD_OK_ACK message.

@node Multiplex Name Service
@subsection Multiplex Name Service

@node Device Management Services
@section Device Management Services

The device management services allow a CDS user to enable or disable a communications device.

@menu
* Enable Service::
* Disable Service::
@end menu

@node Enable Service
@subsection Enable Service

The enable service allows a CDS user to enable a communications device.  Enabling a communications device may consist of
dialling a modem to establish a switched connection, or may consist of simply enabling the communications device
attached to a permanent medium.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_ENABLE_REQ}:
The message CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
is used to request that a communications device be enabled and to optionally provide a dial string for a modem.

@item @b{CD_ENABLE_CON}:
The CDS provider confirms that the communications device was successfully enabled using a CD_ENABLE_CON
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates a failure to enable the communications device using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal message sequence is illustrated in @figref{36}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi36,36,Message Flow: Enabling a Stream,4in}

In @figref{36}, the CDS user issues a CD_ENABLE_REQ message requesting that the communications device and medium be
enabled or connected.  Enabling can be soley a local matter, affecting only the local communications device, or can be
an end-to-end matter, where the underlying protocol exchanges PDUs necessary to dial, connect or enable the medium.

@node Disable Service
@subsection Disable Service

The disable service allows a CDS user to disable a communications device.  Disabling a communications device may consist
of disconnecting a modem on a previously established switched connection, or may consist of simply disabling the
communications device attached to a permanent medium.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_DISABLE_REQ}:
The CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
message is used to request that a communications device be disabled and to optionally provide for the disposition of
unsent data units.

@item @b{CD_DISABLE_CON}:
The CDS provider confirms that the communications device was successfully disable, and that unsent
data units were properly disposed of, using a CD_DISABLE_CON
@prindex CD_DISABLE_CON
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
The CDS provider indicats a failure of the communications device resulting in it being disabled locally using a
CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message.  (The CD_ERROR_IND message normally has an error number indicating that the communications device was
disconnected, i.e. CD_DISC.)
@peindex CD_DISC

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider indicates a failure to disable the communications device using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal message sequence is illustrated in @figref{37}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi37,37,Message Flow: Disabling a Stream,4in}

In @figref{37}, the CDS user issues a CD_DISABLE_REQ message requesting that the communications device and medium be
disabled or disconnected.  Disabling can be soley a local matter, affecting only the local communications device, or can
be an end-to-end matter, where the underlying protocol exchanges PDUs necessary to disconnect or disable the medium.

@node Data Transfer Services
@section Data Transfer Services

Data transfer services provide for the transfer of data between CDS users on a communications device.  There are three
output styles for data transfer: unacknowledged, acknowledged and paced.  In all modes, data is transferred in
self-contained units and there is not necessarily any relationship between independent units of data.  Data can be
trasnferred both in a connectionless sense, in that addresses are associated with the data transfer, or in a
connection-mode sense, in that no addresses are associated with the data transfer.  In all output styles, the receiving
CDS user is selected, not with addresses, but by selecting the communications device stream upon which the data is
transmitted.  The receiving CDS user is implied: it is the CDS user that is at the other end of the communications
device medium as selected by the PPA.  Addresses and priorities associated with the user data are for use by the
receiving CDS user in de-multiplexing the data within the CDS user.  The CDS provider does not de-multiplex data and any
data received on the communications devices associated with a physical point of appearance are delivered to the CDS user
that is attached and enabled for that communications device.

@menu
* Unacknowledged Data Transfer Service::
* Acknowledged Data Transfer Service::
* Paced Data Transfer Service::
@end menu

@node Unacknowledged Data Transfer Service
@subsection Unacknowledged Data Transfer Service

Unacknowledged data transfer service provides for the transfer of data between CDS users without acknowledgement.  In
the general case, this is an unreliable data transfer.  However, the CDS provide may provide assurances with regard to
the loss, duplication and reordering of data.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_REQ}:
The sending CDS user transfers data to the receiving CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_IND}:
Upon receiving user data, the CDS provider indicates the received data to the local CDS user with the
CD_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to transmit CDS user data requested in a CD_UNITDATA_REQ message, it responds to
the local sending CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_BAD_FRAME_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to receive CDS user data correctly, it is indicated to the local receiving CDS user
with the CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
@prindex CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
message.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful unacknowledged transmission and reception is illustrated in
@figref{42}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi42,42,Message Flow: Successful Unacknowleged Data Transfer,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful unacknowledged transmission is illustrated in @figref{43}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi43,43,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Unacknowleged Data Transmission,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful unacknowledged reception is illustrated in @figref{44}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi44,44,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Unacknowleged Data Reception,4in}

In @figref{42}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the receiving side indicates the data in a CD_UNITDATA_IND message.  No acknowledgments
or receipt confirmation is indicated at the sending CDS provider, regardless of whether the underlying protocol supports
receipt confirmation.

In @figref{43}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user cannot have its data transmitted by the
CDS provider due to a transmission error (e.g. the communications medium has disconnected).  The CDS provider indicates
the transmission error the CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND message.
This is the same in the unacknowledged, acknowledged and paced cases.

In @figref{44}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the receiving side detects an error in the transmission (e.g. a CRC error) and indicates an
errored frame to the receiving CDS user with a CD_BAD_FRAME_IND message.  No error is indicated to the sending CDS
user, regardless of whether the underlying protocol supports negative acknowledgements of received data.

@node Acknowledged Data Transfer Service
@subsection Acknowledged Data Transfer Service

Acknowledged data transfer service provides for the acknowledged transfer of data between CDS users.  In the general
case, this is an unreliable data transfer with indication of loss.  However, the CDS provider may provide assurances
with regard to the loss, duplication and reordering of data.

The acknowledged data transfer service requires support from the underlying protocol and CDS provider implementation.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_REQ}:
The sending CDS user transfers data to the receiving CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_IND}:
Upon receiving user data, the CDS provider indicates the received data to the local CDS user with the
CD_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_ACK}:
Upon successful receipt acknowledgement, the CDS provider indicates receipt acknowledgement to the local sending CDS
user with the CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to transmit CDS user data requested in a CD_UNITDATA_REQ message, or a negative
acknowledgement is received by the peer CDS provider, it responds to the local sending CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_BAD_FRAME_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to receive CDS user data correctly, it is indicated to the local receiving CDS user
with the CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
@prindex CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
message.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful acknowledged transmission and reception is illustrated in @figref{45}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi45,45,Message Flow: Successful Acknowleged Data Transfer,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful acknowledged transmission is illustrated in @figref{46}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi46,46,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Acknowleged Data Transmission,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful acknowledged reception is illustrated in @figref{47}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi47,47,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Acknowleged Data Reception,4in}

In @figref{45}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the receiving side indicates the data in a CD_UNITDATA_IND message and provides a
positive acknowledgement or receipt confirmation to the sending CDS provider.  The sending CDS provider, upon receipt of
the positive acknolwedgement or receipt confirmation indicates acknowledgement to the local sending CDS user with the
CD_UNITDATA_ACK message.

In @figref{46}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user cannot have its data transmitted by the CDS
provider due to a transmission error (e.g. the communications medium has disconnected).  The CDS provider indicates the
transmission error the CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND message.
This is the same in the unacknowledged, acknowledged and paced cases.

In @figref{47}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the receiving side detects an error in the transmission (e.g. a CRC error) and indicates an
errored frame to the receiving CDS user with a CD_BAD_FRAME_IND message.  A negative acknowledgement is
sent to the sending CDS provider using the underlying protocol.  The sending CDS provider, upon receipt of the negative
acknowledgement, indicates the reception error to the sending CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND message.

@node Paced Data Transfer Service
@subsection Paced Data Transfer Service

Paced data transfer service provides for the paced transfer of data between CDS users.  In the general case, this is an
unreliable data transfer.  Acknowledgements of data transfer only indicate timing hints to the sending CDS user and do
not constitute receipt confirmation.  However, the CDS provider may provide assurances with regard to loss, duplication
and reordering of data.

The paced data transfer service requires support from the sending CDS provider.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_REQ}:
The sending CDS user transfers data to the receiving CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_ACK}:
Upon successful @emph{transmission} of the user data, the CDS provider acknowledges the data transmission to the local
sending CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_IND}:
Upon receiving user data, the CDS provider indicates the received data to the local CDS user with the
CD_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to transmit CDS user data requested in a CD_UNITDATA_REQ message, it responds to
the local sending CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_BAD_FRAME_IND}:
If the local CDS provider is unable to receive CDS user data correctly, it is indicated to the local receiving CDS user
with the CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
@prindex CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
message.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful paced transmission and reception is illustrated in @figref{48}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi48,48,Message Flow: Successful Paced Data Transfer,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful paced transmission is illustrated in @figref{49}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi49,49,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Paced Data Transmission,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful paced reception is illustrated in @figref{50}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi50,50,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Paced Data Reception,4in}

In @figref{48}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the sending side, once the data has been transmitted, or using some other timing que, issues
an acknowledgement of the transmission to the local CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_ACK message.  The CDS provider at
the receiving side indicates the data in a CD_UNITDATA_IND message.  No receipt confirmation is indicated at the
sending CDS provider, regardless of whether the underlying protocol supports receipt confirmation.

In @figref{49}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user cannot have its data transmitted by the CDS
provider due to a transmission error (e.g. the communications medium has disconnected).  The CDS provider indicates the
transmission error the CDS user with a CD_ERROR_IND message.
This is the same in the unacknowledged, acknowledged and paced cases.

In @figref{50}, the CD_UNITDATA_REQ message at the sending CDS user results in data transfer to the receiving CDS
user.  The CDS provider at the sending side, once the data has been transmitted, or using some other timing que, issues
an acknowledgement of the transmission to the local CDS user with the CD_UNITDATA_ACK message.  The CDS provider at
the receiving side detects an error in the transmission (e.g. a CRC error) and indicates an errored frame to the
receiving CDS user with a CD_BAD_FRAME_IND message.  No negative acknowledgement is indicated to the sending CDS
user, regardless of whether the underlying protocol supports negative acknowledgements.

@node Duplex Management Services
@section Duplex Management Services

Duplex management services allow fine-grained control of the half-duplex mechanism.  These services logically
distinguish between the input section of the communications device and the output section of the communications device.
The input section can be enabled (disabling the output section on half-duplex devices) and disabled (enabling the output
section).  The output section can have output aborted.  And output-input operations are also possible where data units
are transmitted and then a response is awaited.

These duplex management services are only necessary or CDS providers that expose the activation and deactivation of the
input and output sections to the CDS user.  CDS providers that control half-duplex communications devices, but which do
not expose the half-duplex nature to the CDS user, can use the normal data transfer services used for full-duplex
devices.  The CDS user can determine the style of the CDS provider using the information reporting service
(@pxref{Information Reporting Service}).

@menu
* Input Section Service::
* Output Section Service::
* Input-Output Service::
@end menu

@node Input Section Service
@subsection Input Section Service

Input section services control the activation of the input section (and resulting deactivation of the output section).
The read service provides the ability to activate the input section and await data or the expiry of a time interval for
which to wait.  The input allow and halt services provide the ability to permanently active or deactivate the input
section.

@menu
* Read Service::
* Input Allow Service::
* Input Halt Service::
@end menu

@node Read Service
@subsubsection Read Service

The read service is for half-duplex operation and temporarily enables the input section until data has been received, or
until an time interval has passed, whichever comes first.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_READ_REQ}:
The CDS user requests the read service using the CD_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
message.  This message also specifies the period of time to await input data before failing with a CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
error.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges successful receipt of the CD_READ_REQ message using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the read request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_IND}:
If data is available to be read, the CDS provider confirms the read request using a CD_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
The CDS provider indicates the failure of the read request (the interval of time has elapsed before data was available
to be read) using a CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message containing the error CD_READTIMEOUT.
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful read request is illustrated in @figref{40}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi40,40,Message Flow: Successful Read Request,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful read request is illustrated in @figref{41}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi41,41,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Read Request,4in}

@node Input Allow Service
@subsubsection Input Allow Service

The input allow service enables the CDS user to allow the input section (disabling the output section) until further
notice.  The allow input service is typically used with the halt input service (@pxref{Input Halt Service}).

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ}:
The CDS user requests that the input section be allowed using the CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provide acknowledges successful receipt of the message using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the allow input request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of messages is illustrated in @figref{8}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi38,8,Message Flow: Allow Input,4in}

@node Input Halt Service
@subsubsection Input Halt Service

The input halt service enables the CDS user to halt the input section (enabling the output section) until further
notice.  The halt input service is typically used following the allow input service (@pxref{Input Allow Service}).

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ}:
The CDS user request that the input section be halted using the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provide acknowledges successful receipt of the message using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the allow input request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful halt input request is illustrated in @figref{39}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi39,39,Message Flow: Halt Input,4in}

@node Output Section Service
@subsection Output Section Service

The output section can be controlled using the abort service.  The output abort service provides the ability for the CDS
user to abort any output currently being transmitted by the communications device.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ}:
The CDS user request that output be aborted using the CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provide acknowledges successful receipt of the message using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the allow input request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful abort output request is illustrated in .

@node Input-Output Service
@subsection Input-Output Service

A smooth transition from transmission to reception of data units can be accomplished using the write-read service.  This
service provides the CDS user with the ability to transmit data and then await data reception.  The service is like a
unit data request service followed by a read service.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_WRITE_READ_REQ}:
The CDS user request that a write read request be performed using the CD_WRITE_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_WRITE_READ_REQ
message.

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provide acknowledges successful receipt of the write read request using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the write read request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@item @b{CD_UNITDATA_IND}:
If data is available to be read, the CDS provider confirms the write read request using a CD_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:
The CDS provider indicates the failure of the write read request (the interval of time has elapsed before data was
available to be read) using a CD_ERROR_IND
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
message containing the error CD_READTIMEOUT.
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT

@end itemize

The normal sequence of primitives for a successful write read service request is illustrated in @figref{51}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi51,51,Message Flow: Successful Write Read Request,4in}

The normal sequence of primitives for an unsuccessful write read service request is illustrated in @figref{52}.

@figuresized{cdi_fi52,52,Message Flow: Unsuccessful Write Read Request,4in}

@node Event Services
@section Event Services

@menu
* Error Reporting Service::
* Modem Signals Services::
@end menu

@node Error Reporting Service
@subsection Error Reporting Service

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_ERROR_IND}:

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

@node Modem Signals Services
@subsection Modem Signals Services

@menu
* Assert Modem Signals Service::
* Poll Modem Signals Service::
@end menu

@node Assert Modem Signals Service
@subsubsection Assert Modem Signals Service

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ}:

@item @b{CD_OK_ACK}:
The CDS provide acknowledges successful receipt of the modem signal request using the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
message.

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the modem signal request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

@node Poll Modem Signals Service
@subsubsection Poll Modem Signals Service

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL_REQ}:

@item @b{CD_MODEM_SIG_IND}:

@item @b{CD_ERROR_ACK}:
The CDS provider acknowledges failure for the modem signal poll request using a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
message.
@xref{Error Reporting Service}.

@end itemize

@node An Example
@section An Example

To bring it all together, the following example illustrates the primitives that
@cpindex Connection mode
flow during a complete, connection-mode sequence between stream open and stream
@cpindex Connection mode
close.

@figuresized{cdi_fi35,35,Message Flow: A Connection-mode Example,3.75in}

@node CDI Primitives
@chapter CDI Primitives

@menu
* Local Management Service Primitives::
* Device Management Service Primitives::
* Device Data Transfer Service Primitives::
* Device Duplex Management Service Primitives::
* Lead and Signal Service Primitives::
@end menu

@node Local Management Service Primitives
@section Local Management Service Primitives

@menu
* PPA Initialization/De-initialization::
* Message CD_INFO_REQ (cd_info_req_t)::
* Message CD_INFO_ACK (cd_info_ack_t)::
* Message CD_ATTACH_REQ (cd_attach_req_t)::
* Message CD_DETACH_REQ (cd_detach_req_t)::
* Message CD_OK_ACK (cd_ok_ack_t)::
* Message CD_ERROR_ACK (cd_error_ack_t)::
* Message CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (cd_mux_name_req_t)::
@end menu

This section describes the local management service primitives that are common to all service modes.  These primitives
support the Information Reporting, Attach and Acknowledgement services.  Once a stream has been opened by a CDS user,
these primitive initialize the stream, preparing it for use.

@node PPA Initialization/De-initialization
@subsection PPA Initialization/De-initialization

The PPA associated with each stream must be initialized before the CDS provider can transfer data over the medium.  The
initialization and de-initialization of the PPA is a network management issue, but CDI must address the issue because of
the impact such actions will have on a CDS user.  More specifically, CDI requires the CDS provider to initialize the PPA
associated with a stream at some point before it completes the processing of the CD_ENABLE_REQ.
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
Guidelines for initialization and de-initialization of a PPA by a CDS provider are presented here.

@subsubsection PPA Initialization

A CDS provide may initialize a PPA using the following methods:

@itemize @bullet

@item pre-initialized by some network management mechanism before the CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive is received; or

@item automatic initialization on receipt of a CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
or CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive.

@end itemize

A specific CDS provider may support either of these methods, or possibly some combination of the two, but the method
implemented has no impact on the CDS user.  From the CDS user's viewpoint, the PPA is guaranteed to be initialized on
receipt of a CD_ENABLE_CON
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
primitive.  For automatic initialization, this implies that the CD_ENABLE_CON
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
primitive may not be issued until the initialization has completed.

If pre-initialization has not been performed and/or automatic initialization fails, the CDS provider will fail the
CD_ENABLE_REQ.
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
Two errors,
CD_INITFAILED
@peindex CD_INITFAILED
and CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
may be returned in the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive in response to a CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive if PPA initialization fails.
CD_INITFAILED
@peindex CD_INITFAILED
is returned when a CDS provider supports automatic PPA initialization, but the initialization attempt failed.
CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
is returned wen the CDS provider requires pre-initialization, but the PPA is not initialized before the
CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
is received.

@subsubsection PPA De-initialization

A CDS provider may handle PPA de-initialization using the following methods:

@itemize @bullet

@item automatic de-initialization upon receipt of the final CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
(for @dfn{Style 2} providers) or CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
(for @dfn{Style 1} providers), or upon closing of the last stream associated with the PPA;

@item automatic de-initialization after expiration of a timer following the last CD_DETACH_REQ,
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
CD_DISABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
or close as appropriate; or

@item no automatic de-initialization; administrative intervention is required to de-initialize the PPA at some point
after it is no longer being accessed.

@end itemize

A specific CDS provider may support any of these methods, or possibly some combination of them, but the method
implemented has no impact on the CDS user.  From the CDS user's viewpoint, the PPA is guaranteed to be initialized and
available for transmission until it closes or disables the stream associated with the PPA.

CDS provider-specific addendum documentation should describe the method chosen for PPA initialization and
de-initialization.

@page
@node Message CD_INFO_REQ (cd_info_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_INFO_REQ (cd_info_req_t)
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ
@tpindex cd_info_req_t
@anchor{CD_INFO_REQ}
@anchor{cd_info_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the provider acknowledge the primitive with a
CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
primitive indicating protocol and option information.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists fo one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_info_req_t;
@tpindex cd_info_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var
@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.
@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state other than CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
where a local acknowledgement is not pending.

@subsubheading New State

The stat is unchanged as a result of the primitive.

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the provider to acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the provider acknowledges the primitive with the
CD_INFO_ACK.
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges the primitive with the
CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
indicating the reason for failure of the primitive.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_INFO_ACK (cd_info_ack_t)
@subsection Message CD_INFO_ACK (cd_info_ack_t)
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
@tpindex cd_info_ack_t
@anchor{CD_INFO_ACK}
@anchor{cd_info_ack_t}

This provider originated primitive acknowledges a previously issued
CD_INFO_REQ
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ
primitive, and provides protocol and limits information for the stream upon which the primitive is issued.

If the stream is in state
CD_UNATTACHED,
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
the information returned by
CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
might be different after a successful
CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
than it was before the attach was completed.  This is because the CD provider might not yet have all protocol
information concerning the underlying communications device until after it has been attached to a specific Physical
Point of Attachment.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_max_sdu;
    cd_ulong cd_min_sdu;
    cd_ulong cd_class;
    cd_ulong cd_duplex;
    cd_ulong cd_output_style;
    cd_ulong cd_features;
    cd_ulong cd_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_ppa_style;
@} cd_info_ack_t;
@tpindex cd_info_ack_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the state of the CDI provider.  The
@var{cd_state}
can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) is associated with the stream.  Only Style 2 communications devices (streams that
return CD_STYLE2
@pvindex CD_STYLE2
in the @var{cd_ppa_style}
@vrindex cd_ppa_style
field) can exist in this state.
CD_STYLE2
@pvindex CD_STYLE2
communication devices start in this state after @manref{open(2)}.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
A Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) is associated with the stream, but the communications device is disabled.  Style 1
communications devices (streams that return CD_STYLE1
@pvindex CD_STYLE1
in the @var{cd_ppa_style}
@vrindex cd_ppa_style
field) start in this state after @manref{open(2)}.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
A CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
has been issued and is pending.  The provider is waiting for enabling of the communications device to complete before
confirmation with CD_ENABLE_CON
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
or error acknowledgement with CD_ERROR_ACK.
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
The communications device is enabled and is awaiting use.  Either the input or output must be active or allowed before
data can be transferred.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
The input section is temporarily enabled and will be disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
The input section is permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
A CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
has been issued and is pending.  The provider is waiting for disabling of the communications device to complete before
confirmation with CD_DISABLE_CON
@prindex CD_DISABLE_CON
or error acknowledgement with CD_ERROR_ACK.
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_max_sdu
The maximum size of the Signalling Data Unit (SDU) in octets.

@item cd_min_sdu
The minimum size of the Signalling Data Unit (SDU) in octets.

@item cd_class
Indicates the class of the communications device.  @var{cd_class} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_HDLC
@pvindex CD_HDLC
Bit-synchronous.

@item CD_BISYNC
@pvindex CD_BISYNC
Character-synchronous.

@item CD_LAN
@pvindex CD_LAN
ISO 8802-3,4,5 local-area network MAC.

@item CD_NODEV
@pvindex CD_NODEV
No device, PPA used for X-ray.

@end table

@item cd_duplex
Indicates full or half duplex operation.  @var{cd_duplex} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_FULLDUPLEX
@pvindex CD_FULLDUPLEX
Full duplex; allow input supported.

@item CD_HALFDUPLEX
@pvindex CD_HALFDUPLEX
Half duplex; read write/read supported.

@end table

@item cd_output_style
Indicates the output style.  @var{cd_output_style} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNACKEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_UNACKEDOUTPUT
The communications device does not issue CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
primitives.

@item CD_ACKEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_ACKEDOUTPUT
The communications device issues CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
primitives in acknowledgement of CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitives.

@item CD_PACEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_PACEDOUTPUT
The communications device issues CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
primitives only as output timing hints.

@end table

@item cd_features
Indicates the features supported by the communications device.  @var{cd_features} can be a bitwise OR of the following
flags:

@table @var

@item CD_CANREAD
@pvindex CD_CANREAD
Read request supported on full duplex.

@item CD_CANDIAL
@pvindex CD_CANDIAL
Dial information supported.

@item CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
as soon as enabled.

@item CD_KEEPALIVE
@pvindex CD_KEEPALIVE
Do not send off at CD_DISABLE_REQ.
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
This is a Gcom extension.

@end table

@item cd_addr_length
The maximum size of an address for use with CD_UNITDATA_REQ,
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
CD_UNITDATA_IND.
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND

@item cd_ppa_style
Indicates the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) style.  @var{cd_ppa_style} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_STYLE1
@pvindex CD_STYLE1
The communications device is already attached to the physical point of appearance at @manref{open(2)}.  The device
starts in the CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
state.

@item CD_STYLE2
@pvindex CD_STYLE2
The communications device is not attached to the physical point of appearance at @manref{open(2)}, and must be attached
with CD_ATTACH_REQ.
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
The device starts in the CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
state.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where a local acknowledgement (requiring response with a
CD_OK_ACK)
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
is not pending, and only in response to a CD_INFO_REQ
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ
primitive.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is unchanged.

@page
@node Message CD_ATTACH_REQ (cd_attach_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_ATTACH_REQ (cd_attach_req_t)
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
@tpindex cd_attach_req_t
@anchor{CD_ATTACH_REQ}
@anchor{cd_attach_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the requesting stream be attached to the physical device indicated by the
Physical Point of Attachment (PPA).

When a Style 2 CDI stream is first opened, it is opened in the CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
state and is not associated with a Physical Point of Appearance (PPA).  The CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive requests that the provider associate the stream with the specified PPA and move the stream to the
CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
state.

Style 1 CDI streams open in the CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
state, and a CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive issued on a Style 1 stream will fail.

This primitive is only valid for devices that return CD_STYLE2
@pvindex CD_STYLE2
in the @var{cd_ppa_style}
@vrindex cd_ppa_style
field in a CD_INFO_ACK.
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK

@subsubheading Addressing

A Physical Point of Appearance corresponds to the hardware interface associated with a specific communications device.
A PPA number is associated with each hardware interface for a specific provider or device.  PPA numbers are a
@var{cd_ulong},
@tpindex cd_ulong
but which PPA number corresponds to which Physical Point of Appearance is a provider-specific configuration matter.
Specific providers should document the mapping of PPA numbers to actual Physical Points of Appearance as part of the
provider-specific documentation.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of on M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_ppa;
@} cd_attach_req_t;
@tpindex cd_attach_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_ppa
Specifies the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA).  The format of this field is provider- and device-specific.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is only valid in state CD_UNATTACHED.
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED

@subsubheading New State

The new state is CD_DISABLED.
@stindex CD_DISABLED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the provider to return an acknowledgement indicating the success or failure of the
CD_ATTACH_REQ.
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the provider responds with a CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive acknowledging successful processing of the CD_ATTACH_REQ.
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ.
The new state is CD_DISABLED.
@stindex CD_DISABLED

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider responds with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
indicating the non-fatal error.  The state is unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@table @var

@item CD_BADPPA
@peindex CD_BADPPA
Invalid PPA identifier.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_DETACH_REQ (cd_detach_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_DETACH_REQ (cd_detach_req_t)
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
@tpindex cd_detach_req_t
@anchor{CD_DETACH_REQ}
@anchor{cd_detach_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the requesting stream be detached from the Physical Point of Attachment
(PPA) to which it was previously attached with a successful CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_detach_req_t;
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is only valid in state CD_DISABLED.
@stindex CD_DISABLED

@subsubheading New State

The new state is CD_UNATTACHED.
@prindex CD_UNATTACHED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the provider to acknowledge the receipt of the CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When the primitive is successful, the provider acknowledges receipt of the primitive with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges receipt of the primitive with the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the error.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fata Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_OK_ACK (cd_ok_ack_t)
@subsection Message CD_OK_ACK (cd_ok_ack_t)
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
@tpindex cd_ok_ack_t
@anchor{CD_OK_ACK}
@anchor{cd_ok_ack_t}

This provider originated primitive acknowledges that a primitive requiring local acknowledgement with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
has been received and successfully processed.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_correct_primitive;
@} cd_ok_ack_t;
@tpindex cd_ok_ack_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the new state of the CD provider following successful processing of the request message that elicited the
CD_OK_ACK.
@prindex CD_OK_ACK

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_correct_primitive
Indicates the primitive that was successfully received.  @var{cd_correct_primitive} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
abort output.

@item CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
allow input.

@item CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
attach to a physical point of attachment.

@item CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
detach from a physical point of attachment.

@item CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
halt input.

@item CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ
assert modem signals.

@item CD_MUX_NAME_REQ
@prindex CD_MUX_NAME_REQ
get multiplexer name.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where a local acknowledgement is pending and the primitive is required by the
request primitive.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is the state described under the corresponding request primitive.

@page
@node Message CD_ERROR_ACK (cd_error_ack_t)
@subsection Message CD_ERROR_ACK (cd_error_ack_t)
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
@tpindex cd_error_ack_t
@anchor{CD_ERROR_ACK}
@anchor{cd_error_ack_t}

This provider originated primitive acknowledges that the previously receive primitive requiring an acknowledgement was
received in error.  The primitive to which the error acknowledgement applies and the error code are indicated.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_error_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_errno;
    cd_ulong cd_explanation;
@} cd_error_ack_t;
@tpindex cd_error_ack_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the current state of the interface.  @var{cd_state} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_error_primitive
Indicates the primitive was received in error.  @var{cd_error_primitive} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ

@item CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ

@item CD_ATTACH_REQ
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ

@item CD_DETACH_REQ
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ

@item CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ

@item CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ

@item CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ

@item CD_INFO_REQ
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ

@item CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ

@item CD_MUX_NAME_REQ
@prindex CD_MUX_NAME_REQ

@item CD_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_READ_REQ

@item CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ

@item CD_WRITE_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_WRITE_READ_REQ

@end table

@item cd_errno
Indicates the reason for the error.  @var{cd_errno} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_BADADDRESS
@peindex CD_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.

@item CD_BADADDRTYPE
@peindex CD_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.

@item CD_BADDIAL
@peindex CD_BADDIAL
Dial information was invalid.

@item CD_BADDIALTYPE
@peindex CD_BADDIALTYPE
Invalid dial information type.

@item CD_BADDISPOSAL
@peindex CD_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.

@item CD_BADFRAME
@peindex CD_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.

@item CD_BADPPA
@peindex CD_BADPPA
Invalid PPA identifier.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_INITFAILED
@peindex CD_INITFAILED
Line initialization failed.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
Read request timed out before data arrived.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@item CD_WRITEFAIL
@peindex CD_WRITEFAIL
Unit data request failed.

@end table

@item cd_explanation
Indicates a futher explanation of the error.  When @var{cd_errno} is @var{CD_SYSERR}, this field contains the
@cite{UNIX} system error as described in @manref{errno(3)}.  Otherwise, @var{cd_explanation} may contain one of the
following values:

@table @var

@item CD_CRCERR
@peindex CD_CRCERR
CRC or FCS error.

@item CD_DLE_EOT
@peindex CD_DLE_EOT
DLE EOT detected.

@item CD_FORMAT
@peindex CD_FORMAT
Format error detected.

@item CD_HDLC_ABORT
@peindex CD_HDLC_ABORT
Aborted frame detected.

@item CD_OVERRUN
@peindex CD_OVERRUN
Input overrun.

@item CD_TOOSHORT
@peindex CD_TOOSHORT
Frame too short.

@item CD_INCOMPLETE
@peindex CD_INCOMPLETE
Partial frame received.

@item CD_BUSY
@peindex CD_BUSY
Telephone was busy.

@item CD_NOANSWER
@peindex CD_NOANSWER
Connection went unanswered.

@item CD_CALLREJECT
@peindex CD_CALLREJECT
Connection rejected.

@item CD_HDLC_IDLE
@peindex CD_HDLC_IDLE
HDLC line went idle.

@item CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE
@peindex CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE
HDLC line no longer idle.

@item CD_QUIESCENT
@peindex CD_QUIESCENT
Line being reassigned.

@item CD_RESUMED
@peindex CD_RESUMED
Line has been reassigned.

@item CD_DSRTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_DSRTIMEOUT
Did not see DSR in time.

@item CD_LAN_COLLISIONS
@peindex CD_LAN_COLLISIONS
LAN excessive collisions.

@item CD_LAN_REFUSED
@peindex CD_LAN_REFUSED
LAN message refused.

@item CD_LAN_NOSTATION
@peindex CD_LAN_NOSTATION
LAN no such station.

@item CD_LOSTCTS
@peindex CD_LOSTCTS
Lost Clear to Send signal.

@item CD_DEVERR
@peindex CD_DEVERR
Start of device-specific codes.

@end table

In addition, when the explanation is @var{CD_DEVERR} or greater, the explanation may be a device-specific explanation
code.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where a local acknowledgement is pending in response to one of the following
primitives:
CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ,
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ,
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
CD_ATTACH_REQ,
@prindex CD_ATTACH_REQ
CD_DETACH_REQ,
@prindex CD_DETACH_REQ
CD_DISABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
CD_ENABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ,
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
CD_INFO_REQ,
@prindex CD_INFO_REQ
CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ,
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ
CD_MUX_NAME_REQ,
@prindex CD_MUX_NAME_REQ
CD_READ_REQ,
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
CD_UNITDATA_REQ,
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
CD_WRITE_READ_REQ.
@prindex CD_WRITE_READ_REQ

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged from the state in which the request primitive was issued that elicited the error
acknowledgement.

@page
@node Message CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (cd_mux_name_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (cd_mux_name_req_t)
@prindex CD_MUX_NAME_REQ
@tpindex cd_mux_name_req_t
@anchor{CD_MUX_NAME_REQ}
@anchor{cd_mux_name_req_t}

This user originated primitive request is not documented.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_mux_name_req_t;
@tpindex cd_mux_name_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

Not documented.

@subsubheading New State

Not documented.

@subsubheading Response

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
Not documented.

@item @b{Unsucessful (non-fatal errors):}
Not documented.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} Not documented.

@table @var

@item CD_BADADDRESS
@peindex CD_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.

@item CD_BADADDRTYPE
@peindex CD_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.

@item CD_BADDIAL
@peindex CD_BADDIAL
Dial information was invalid.

@item CD_BADDIALTYPE
@peindex CD_BADDIALTYPE
Invalid dial information type.

@item CD_BADDISPOSAL
@peindex CD_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.

@item CD_BADFRAME
@peindex CD_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.

@item CD_BADPPA
@peindex CD_BADPPA
Invalid PPA identifier.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_INITFAILED
@peindex CD_INITFAILED
Line initialization failed.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
Read request timed out before data arrived.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@item CD_WRITEFAIL
@peindex CD_WRITEFAIL
Unit data request failed.

@end table

@page
@node Device Management Service Primitives
@section Device Management Service Primitives

This section describes the service primitives that support the enabling and disabling service of the communications
device.  These primitives support the Enable and Disable services described earlier.

@menu
* Message CD_ENABLE_REQ (cd_enable_req_t)::
* Message CD_ENABLE_CON (cd_enable_con_t)::
* Message CD_DISABLE_REQ (cd_disable_req_t)::
* Message CD_DISABLE_CON (cd_disable_con_t)::
@end menu

@page
@node Message CD_ENABLE_REQ (cd_enable_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_ENABLE_REQ (cd_enable_req_t)
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
@tpindex cd_enable_req_t
@anchor{CD_ENABLE_REQ}
@anchor{cd_enable_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the communications device be prepared for service and enabled.

A CDI stream that is in the
CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
stat is not yet ready for transmission.  Before the stream can be used for transmission, ti must be successfully enabled
with the
CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive.  Successful processing of the
CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive moves the stream to the
CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state.

If the communications device returns the CD_CANDIAL
@pvindex CD_CANDIAL
flag in the
@var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the
CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
the device is capable of dialling and a dial string can be provided, specified by the
@var{cd_dial_length}
@vrindex cd_dial_length
and
@var{cd_dial_offset}
@vrindex cd_dial_offset
fields.  The specification of the dial string is provider- and device-specific.


In the
CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state, the stream is able to transmit must have not yet necessarily been allowed for input.  If the stream returns
CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
@var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the
CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
the communications device will be allowed for both transmission and reception upon successful completion of the
CD_ENABLE_REQ;
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
however, if the
CD_AUTOALLOW
flag is not returned, the CD user must first call
CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
before reception can begin.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_type;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_offset;
@} cd_enable_req_t;
@tpindex cd_enable_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_dial_type
Specifies the type of the provided dial string.  The type can be set to a provider- or device-specific type, or can be
set as follows:

@table @var
@item CD_NODIAL
@pvindex CD_NODIAL
Specifies that there is no dial string associated with the
CD_ENABLE_REQ.
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
@end table

@item cd_dial_length
Specifies the length of the dial string.  Specification of dial strings is only allowed when the provider returns
CD_CANDIAL
@pvindex CD_CANDIAL
in the
@var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the
CD_INFO_ACK.
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
When no dial string is specified by the user, or
@var{cd_dial_type}
@vrindex cd_dial_type
is set to CD_NODIAL,
@pvindex CD_NODIAL
this field is set to zero
(0).

@item cd_dial_offset
Specifies the offset of the dial string from the beginning of the M_PROTO message block.  When
@var{cd_dial_length}
@vrindex cd_dial_length
is zero (0), this field is ignored.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in state CD_DISABLED.
@stindex CD_DISABLED

@subsubheading New State

The new state is CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
for stream that do not return CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
@var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the
CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
or the new state is CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
for those streams that do return CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
@var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the
CD_INFO_ACK.
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires that the provider acknowledge the receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
Upon success, the provider confirms that the device is enabled with the
CD_ENABLE_CON
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
primitive.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
Upon failure, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the
CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the error.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@emph{Non-Fatal Errors:} appropriate non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADDIAL
@peindex CD_BADDIAL
Dial information was invalid.

@item CD_BADDIALTYPE
@peindex CD_BADDIALTYPE
Invalid dial information type.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_INITFAILED
@peindex CD_INITFAILED
Line initialization failed.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_ENABLE_CON (cd_enable_con_t)
@subsection Message CD_ENABLE_CON (cd_enable_con_t)
@prindex CD_ENABLE_CON
@tpindex cd_enable_con_t
@anchor{CD_ENABLE_CON}
@anchor{cd_enable_con_t}

This provider originated primitive confirms that the previously issued CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive has been successful.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
@} cd_enable_con_t;
@tpindex cd_enable_con_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the state of the CD provider at the time that the primitive was issued.  @var{cd_state} can be one of the
following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is issued by the CD provider in the CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
state.

@subsubheading New State

After issuing this primitive, the CD provider enters the CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state, unless the CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
returns the CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
flag in the @var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field.  In that case, the CD provider enters the CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
state.

@page
@node Message CD_DISABLE_REQ (cd_disable_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_DISABLE_REQ (cd_disable_req_t)
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
@tpindex cd_disable_req_t
@anchor{CD_DISABLE_REQ}
@anchor{cd_disable_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the communications device, previously enabled with a successful
CD_ENABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive, be disabled.  In addition, ti specifies the disposition of unsent messages.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_disposal;
@} cd_disable_req_t;
@tpindex cd_disable_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_disposal
Specifies how unsent message are to be disposed.  This field can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_FLUSH
@pvindex CD_FLUSH
Discard undeliverable data.  All data that is unsent at the time that the CD_DISABLE_REQ primitive is received will
be discarded.  Any data awaiting transmission in the device's write queue will be flushed.

@item CD_WAIT
@pvindex CD_WAIT
Attempt to deliver unsent data.  All data that is unsent, at the time that the CD_DISABLE_REQ primitive is received,
the provider will attempt to send before confirming the primitive.  The provider will not wait for acknowledgement of
sent message.

@item CD_DELIVER
@pvindex CD_DELIVER
Deliver unsent data.  All data that is unsent, at the time that the CD_DISABLE_REQ primitive is received, the
provider will deliver before confirming the primitive.  The provider will wait for acknowledgement of sent messages.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in state CD_ENABLED.
@stindex CD_ENABLED

@subsubheading New State

The new state is CD_DISABLED.
@stindex CD_DISABLED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the provider to acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the provider confirms the receipt of the primitive with a CD_DISABLE_CON
@prindex CD_DISABLE_CON
primitive indicating the success of the operation.  The new state is CD_UNATTACHED.
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the error.  The state is unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADDISPOSAL
@peindex CD_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_DISABLE_CON (cd_disable_con_t)
@subsection Message CD_DISABLE_CON (cd_disable_con_t)
@prindex CD_DISABLE_CON
@tpindex cd_disable_con_t
@anchor{CD_DISABLE_CON}
@anchor{cd_disable_con_t}

This provider originated primitive confirms that the previous CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
has been successful.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
@} cd_disable_req_t;
@tpindex cd_disable_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is issued in the CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
state.

@subsubheading New State

After issuing this primitive the provider enters the CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
state.

@page
@node Device Data Transfer Service Primitives
@section Device Data Transfer Service Primitives

@menu
* Message CD_ERROR_IND (cd_error_ind_t)::
* Message CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (cd_bad_frame_ind_t)::
* Message CD_UNITDATA_IND (cd_unitdata_ind_t)::
* Message CD_UNITDATA_REQ (cd_unitdata_req_t)::
* Message CD_UNITDATA_ACK (cd_unitdata_ack_t)::
@end menu

@page
@node Message CD_ERROR_IND (cd_error_ind_t)
@subsection Message CD_ERROR_IND (cd_error_ind_t)
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
@tpindex cd_error_ind_t
@anchor{CD_ERROR_IND}
@anchor{cd_error_ind_t}

This provider originated primitive indicates that an asynchronous error has occurred and indicates the error number and
new state of the CD provider.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_errno;
    cd_ulong cd_explanation;
@} cd_error_ind_t;
@tpindex cd_error_ind_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@table @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the state of the CD provider following the CD_ERROR_IND.
@prindex CD_ERROR_IND
@var{cd_state} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_errno
Indicates the reason for error.  @var{cd_errno} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_BADFRAME
@peindex CD_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
Read request timed out before data arrived.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@item CD_WRITEFAIL
@peindex CD_WRITEFAIL
Unit data request failed.

@end table

@item cd_explanation
Indicates a futher explanation of the error.  When @var{cd_errno} is @var{CD_SYSERR}, this field contains the
@cite{UNIX} system error as described in @manref{errno(3)}.  Otherwise, @var{cd_explanation} may contain one of the
following values:

@table @var

@item CD_CRCERR
@peindex CD_CRCERR
CRC or FCS error.

@item CD_DLE_EOT
@peindex CD_DLE_EOT
DLE EOT detected.

@item CD_FORMAT
@peindex CD_FORMAT
Format error detected.

@item CD_HDLC_ABORT
@peindex CD_HDLC_ABORT
Aborted frame detected.

@item CD_OVERRUN
@peindex CD_OVERRUN
Input overrun.

@item CD_TOOSHORT
@peindex CD_TOOSHORT
Frame too short.

@item CD_INCOMPLETE
@peindex CD_INCOMPLETE
Partial frame received.

@item CD_BUSY
@peindex CD_BUSY
Telephone was busy.

@item CD_NOANSWER
@peindex CD_NOANSWER
Connection went unanswered.

@item CD_CALLREJECT
@peindex CD_CALLREJECT
Connection rejected.

@item CD_HDLC_IDLE
@peindex CD_HDLC_IDLE
HDLC line went idle.

@item CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE
@peindex CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE
HDLC line no longer idle.

@item CD_QUIESCENT
@peindex CD_QUIESCENT
Line being reassigned.

@item CD_RESUMED
@peindex CD_RESUMED
Line has been reassigned.

@item CD_DSRTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_DSRTIMEOUT
Did not see DSR in time.

@item CD_LAN_COLLISIONS
@peindex CD_LAN_COLLISIONS
LAN excessive collisions.

@item CD_LAN_REFUSED
@peindex CD_LAN_REFUSED
LAN message refused.

@item CD_LAN_NOSTATION
@peindex CD_LAN_NOSTATION
LAN no such station.

@item CD_LOSTCTS
@peindex CD_LOSTCTS
Lost Clear to Send signal.

@item CD_DEVERR
@peindex CD_DEVERR
Start of device-specific codes.

@end table

In addition, when the explanation is @var{CD_DEVERR} or greater, the explanation may be a device-specific explanation
code.


@end table

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where data transmission is valid.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is indicated in the primitive.

@page
@node Message CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (cd_bad_frame_ind_t)
@subsection Message CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (cd_bad_frame_ind_t)
@prindex CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
@tpindex cd_bad_frame_ind_t
@anchor{CD_BAD_FRAME_IND}
@anchor{cd_bad_frame_ind_t}

This provider originated primitive indicates that a frame was received in error.  The error is indicated along with any
data that is retrievable from the frame received in error.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block followed by zero or more M_DATA message blocks.  The M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_error;
@} cd_bad_frame_ind_t;
@tpindex cd_bad_frame_ind_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the state of the provider following the issuing of the primitive.  It can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_error
Indicates the error encountered by the frame.  Among other values defined for a particular device, this error can be one
of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_FRMTOOLONG
@pvindex CD_FRMTOOLONG
The frame was too long; it overflowed the receive buffer.  The data that was successfully received is in the M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.

@item CD_FRMNONOCTET
@pvindex CD_FRMNONOCTET
The frame was not octet-aligned.  This is a residue error.  The data that was successfully received (not including the
residue error bits) is in the M_DATA message blocks associated with the primitive.

@item CD_EMPTY_BFR
@pvindex CD_EMPTY_BFR
The receive buffer is empty.  This error is not normally used.  No M_DATA message blocks are included with this error.

@item CD_BAD_CRC
@pvindex CD_BAD_CRC
There was a CRC error in an otherwise correctly received frame.  The data that was successfully received, but which
failed CRC calculation, is in the M_DATA message blocks associated with the primitive.

@item CD_FRM_ABORTED
@pvindex CD_FRM_ABORTED
The frame was aborted.  Any successfully received octets at the time of the abort are included in the M_DATA message
blocks associated with the primitive.

@item CD_RCV_OVERRUN
@pvindex CD_RCV_OVERRUN
There was a receiver overrun during the reception of the frame.  Any successfully received octets up to the point of the
receiver overrun are included in the M_DATA message blocks associated with the primitive.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where the user is not expecting local acknowledgement.

@subsubheading New State

After issuing this primitive, the new state is indicated in the primitive.

@page
@node Message CD_UNITDATA_IND (cd_unitdata_ind_t)
@subsection Message CD_UNITDATA_IND (cd_unitdata_ind_t)
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_IND
@tpindex cd_unitdata_ind_t
@anchor{CD_UNITDATA_IND}
@anchor{cd_unitdata_ind_t}

This provider originated primitive indicates that data has arrived for the specified source and destination addresses
with the specified priority.

The M_PROTO message block is only necessary when the parameters included in the primitive are not implied by the
communications device.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block followed by one or more M_DATA message blocks.  The M_PROTO message
block is optional.  The M_PROTO message block is structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_src_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_src_addr_offset;
    cd_ulong cd_addr_type;
    cd_ulong cd_priority;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
@} cd_unitdata_ind_t;
@tpindex cd_unitdata_ind_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
Indicates the state of the CD provider following the indication primitive.  @var{cd_state} can be one of the following
values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@item cd_src_addr_length
Indicates the length of the source address associated with the received data.  When the sending endpoint uses CDI, this
address is the same as the @var{cd_dest_addr_length}
@vrindex cd_dest_addr_length
of the corresponding CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive.  When no source address is provided, or the source address is implicit to the data, this field is coded zero
(0).

@item cd_src_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the M_PROTO message block.  When
@var{cd_src_addr_length} is zero (0), this field is also zero (0).

@item cd_addr_type

@table @var

@item CD_SPECIFIC
@pvindex CD_SPECIFIC
Indicates that an address is contained in the primitive.  When @var{cd_addr_type} is set to CD_SPECIFIC, a destination
address is indicated in the @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} fields.

@item CD_BROADCAST
@pvindex CD_BROADCAST
Indicates that the data was sent to the implicit broadcast address and no specific address follows.  When
@var{cd_addr_type} is set to CD_BROADCAST, the fields @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} are
coded zero (0) and should be ignored by the CD user.

@item CD_IMPLICIT
@pvindex CD_IMPLICIT
Indicates that an implicit address was used, or that the address is embedded in the data.  When @var{cd_addr_type} is
set to CD_IMPLICIT, the fields @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} are coded zero (0) and should
be ignored by the CD user.

@end table

@item cd_priority
Indicates the priority of the received data.  The priority is provider- and device-specific.

@item cd_dest_addr_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.  When this field is coded zero (0), it indicates that no destination
address is included in the message.

@item cd_dest_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the start of the M_PROTO message block.  When
@var{cd_dest_addr_length} is zero (0), this field is also coded zero (0) and should be ignored by the CD user.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state when the device is allowed to receive data (i.e. CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
and CD_INPUT_ALLOWED).
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED

@subsubheading New State

The state remains unchanged.

@page
@node Message CD_UNITDATA_REQ (cd_unitdata_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_UNITDATA_REQ (cd_unitdata_req_t)
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@tpindex cd_unitdata_req_t
@anchor{CD_UNITDATA_REQ}
@anchor{cd_unitdata_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the specified data be sent to the specified destination address with the
specified priority.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block followed by one or more M_DATA message blocks.  The M_PROTO message
block is structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_addr_type;
    cd_ulong cd_priority;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
@} cd_unitdata_req_t;
@tpindex cd_unitdata_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_addr_type
Specifies the address type.  The address type can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_SPECIFIC
@pvindex CD_SPECIFIC
Specifies that an address is contained in the primitive.  When @var{cd_addr_type} is set to CD_SPECIFIC, a destination
address must be specified in the @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} fields.

@item CD_BROADCAST
@pvindex CD_BROADCAST
Specifies that the data is to be sent to the implicit broadcast address and no specific address follows.  When
@var{cd_addr_type} is set to CD_BROADCAST, the field @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} should
be coded zero (0) and are ignored by the CD provider.

@item CD_IMPLICIT
@pvindex CD_IMPLICIT
Specifies that an implicit address is to be used, or that the address is embedded in the data.  When @var{cd_addr_type}
is set to CD_IMPLICIT, the fields @var{cd_dest_addr_length} and @var{cd_dest_addr_offset} should be coded zero (0) and
are ignored by the CD provider.  No address or embedded address.

@end table

@item cd_priority
Specifies the priority of the data.  Priorities are provider- and device-specific.

@item cd_dest_addr_length
When @var{cd_addr_type} is CD_SPECIFIC, this field specifies the length of the destination address to which to send
the message.  Otherwise, this field is coded zero (0) and ignored by the CD provider.

@item cd_dest_addr_offset
When @var{cd_addr_type} is CD_SPECIFIC, this field specifies the offset of the destination address from the start of
the M_PROTO message block.  Otherwise, this field is ignored by the CD provider.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in states
CD_ENABLED,
@stindex CD_ENABLED
CD_INPUT_ALLOWED,
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE,
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
CD_READ_ACTIVE.
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE

@subsubheading New State

The state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires an acknowledgement under the following conditions:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When field @var{cd_output_style}
@vrindex cd_output_style
in CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
is set to CD_ACKEDOUTPUT,
@pvindex CD_ACKEDOUTPUT
then the provider is required to acknowledge the CD_UNITDATA_REQ with a CD_UNITDATA_ACK.
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
Otherwise, the primitive does not require an acknowledgement.  In either case, the state remains unchanged.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider is required to acknowledge the primitive with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the error.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reaons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADADDRESS
@peindex CD_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.

@item CD_BADADDRTYPE
@peindex CD_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@item CD_WRITEFAIL
@peindex CD_WRITEFAIL
Unit data request failed.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_UNITDATA_ACK (cd_unitdata_ack_t)
@subsection Message CD_UNITDATA_ACK (cd_unitdata_ack_t)
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_ACK
@tpindex cd_unitdata_ack_t
@anchor{CD_UNITDATA_ACK}
@anchor{cd_unitdata_ack_t}

This provider originated primitive acknowledges that the previous CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive was acknowledged as sent.

CD_UNITDATA_ACK primitives are indicated or not depending on the output style as indicated in the
@var{cd_output_style}
@vrindex cd_output_style
field of the CD_INFO_ACK
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
primitive as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_UNACKEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_UNACKEDOUTPUT
No CD_UNITDATA_ACK primitives will be indicated.

@item CD_ACKEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_ACKEDOUTPUT
CD_UNITDATA_ACK primitives will be issued for every outstanding CD_UNITDATA_REQ.
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ

@item CD_PACEDOUTPUT
@pvindex CD_PACEDOUTPUT
CD_UNITDATA_ACK primitives will only be issued as a timing clue for output.

@end table

When the CD_DISABLE_REQ
@prindex CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is requested, outstanding acknowledgements may be cancelled depending on the value contained in the
@var{cd_disposal}
@vrindex cd_disposal
field of this primitive.  When the CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
primitive is requested, outstanding acknowledgements are cancelled.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
@} cd_unitdata_ack_t;
@tpindex cd_unitdata_ack_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_state
The state of the CD provider following the acknowledgement.  @var{cd_state} can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.

@item CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.

@item CD_DISABLED
@stindex CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.

@item CD_ENABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of enable request.

@item CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.

@item CD_READ_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.

@item CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently allowed.

@item CD_DISABLE_PENDING
@stindex CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting acknowledgement of disable request.

@item CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
@stindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.

@item CD_XRAY
@stindex CD_XRAY
X-raying another PPA.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where a CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
is outstanding, or when a paced output request is necessary.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is unchanged.

@page
@node Device Duplex Management Service Primitives
@section Device Duplex Management Service Primitives

@menu
* Message CD_READ_REQ (cd_read_req_t)::
* Message CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (cd_allow_input_req_t)::
* Message CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (cd_halt_input_req_t)::
* Message CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (cd_abort_output_req_t)::
* Message CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (cd_write_read_req_t)::
@end menu

@page
@node Message CD_READ_REQ (cd_read_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_READ_REQ (cd_read_req_t)
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
@tpindex cd_read_req_t
@anchor{CD_READ_REQ}
@anchor{cd_read_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that an enabled communications device temporarily allow the input section.

When a stream is enabled with CD_ENABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
it can be used for transmission.  If the stream returns CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
in the @var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
the device automatically allows input and there is no need to call the CD_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
primitive for the device, unless CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
has been successfully called beforehand.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_msec;
@} cd_read_req_t;
@tpindex cd_read_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_msec
Specifies the interval of time for which to allow the input section, in units of milliseconds.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in the CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state.

@subsubheading New State

When successful, the new state is CD_INPUT_ALLOWED.
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
After the interval, @var{cd_msec}, has expired, the state will revert to CD_ENABLED.
@stindex CD_ENABLED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires that the provider acknowledge the receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.  The new state is CD_INPUT_ALLOWED.
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the error.  The new state is unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows.

@table @var

@item CD_BADFRAME
@peindex CD_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
Read request timed out before data arrived.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (cd_allow_input_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (cd_allow_input_req_t)
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@tpindex cd_allow_input_req_t
@anchor{CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ}
@anchor{cd_allow_input_req_t}

This user originated primitive request that an enabled communications device permanently allow the input section.

When a stream is enabled with CD_ENABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_ENABLE_REQ
it can be used for transmission.  If the stream returns CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
in the @var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
the device automatically allows input and there is no need to call the CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ primitive for the
device, unless the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
has been successfully called beforehand.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_allow_input_req_t;
@tpindex cd_allow_input_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in the CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state.

@subsubheading New State

When successful, the new stat is CD_INPUT_ALLOWED.
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires that the provider acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.  The new state is CD_INPUT_ALLOWED.
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive.  The reason for failure is provided in the error field of the primitive.  The state remains unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

If the input section is already allowed and this primitive is issued in the CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
state, the provider should ignore the primitive and not generate a non-fatal error.

@page
@node Message CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (cd_halt_input_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (cd_halt_input_req_t)
@prindex CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
@tpindex cd_halt_input_req_t
@anchor{CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ}
@anchor{cd_halt_input_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the input section be halted.

When a stream is enabled with CD_ENABLE_REQ,
@prindex CD_ENABLED_REQ
it can be used immediately for transmission.  If the stream returns CD_AUTOALLOW
@pvindex CD_AUTOALLOW
in the @var{cd_features}
@vrindex cd_features
field of the CD_INFO_ACK,
@prindex CD_INFO_ACK
the device automatically allows input and there is no need to call CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
for the device.  However, CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ will halt input on such a device.

In addition, if the input section is temporarily enabled with CD_READ_REQ,
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
on a half-duplex communications device, then CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ will abort the read operation.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_disposal;
@} cd_halt_input_req_t;
@tpindex cd_halt_input_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_disposal
Specifies how unsent messages are to be disposed.  This field can be one of the following values:

@table @var

@item CD_FLUSH
@pvindex CD_FLUSH
Discard undeliverable data.  All data that is undelivered at the time that the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ primitive is
received will be discarded.  Any data awaiting delivery in the device's read queue will be flushed.

@item CD_WAIT
@pvindex CD_WAIT
Attempt to deliver undelivered data.  All data that is undelivered at the timer that the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
primitive is received the provider will attempt to deliver before acknowledging the primitive.  The provider will not
wait for acknowledgement of sent messages.

@item CD_DELIVER
@pvindex CD_DELIVER
Deliver undelivered data.  All data that is undelivered at the time that the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ primitive  is
received the provider will deliver before acknowledging the primitive.  The provider will also wait for an deliver
acknowledgement of sent messages.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in state
CD_ENABLED,
@stindex CD_ENABLED
CD_INPUT_ALLOWED or
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
CD_READ_ACTIVE,
@stindex CD_READ_ACTIVE

@subsubheading New State

The new state is CD_ENABLED.
@stindex CD_ENABLED

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires that the CD provider acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
Upon success, the provider will acknowledge receipt of the primitive with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.  The new state is CD_ENABLED.
@stindex CD_ENABLED

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
Upon failure, the provider will acknowledge receipt of the primitive with the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive with the error indicated in the primitive.  The new state remains unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item  CD_BADDISPOSAL
@peindex  CD_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

If the communications device is in the CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
state and the input section is not active, the CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ primitive should be ignored and no non-fatal
error generated.

@page
@node Message CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (cd_abort_output_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (cd_abort_output_req_t)
@prindex CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ
@tpindex cd_abort_output_req_t
@anchor{CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ}
@anchor{cd_abort_output_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that any transmission operation currently in progress be aborted.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_abort_output_req_t;
@tpindex cd_abort_output_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state in which the output section is enabled, but no local acknowledgement is pending.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged unless the current state is CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE,
@prindex CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
in which case the new state is CD_ENABLED
@stindex CD_ENABLED
or CD_INPUT_ALLOWED,
@stindex CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
depending on the state of the input section.

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the CD provider to acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
Upon success, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.  The new state is unchanged.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
Upon failure, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
including the reason for failure.  The new state remains unchanged.

Note that if the output section is not active at the time that the CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ is issued, but the
communications device is enabled, the provider should discard the CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ primitive and not issue any
non-fatal error.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (cd_write_read_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (cd_write_read_req_t)
@prindex CD_WRITE_READ_REQ
@tpindex cd_write_read_req_t
@anchor{CD_WRITE_READ_REQ}
@anchor{cd_write_read_req_t}

This user originated primitive requests that the provided data be transmitted and that the output section be disabled
and the input section enabled immediately following the transmission.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block followed by one or more M_DATA message blocks.  The M_PROTO message
block is structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_unitdata_req_t cd_unitdata_req;
    cd_read_req_t cd_read_req;
@} cd_write_read_req_t;
@tpindex cd_write_read_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_unitdata_req
Specifies a CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive.  See @ref{cd_unitdata_req_t}
@tpindex cd_unitdata_req_t
for formatting of this parameter.

@item cd_read_req
Specifies a CD_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
primitive.  See @ref{cd_read_req_t}
@tpindex cd_read_req_t
for formatting of this parameter.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state where the CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive and CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
@prindex CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ
primitive are permitted.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Response

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
This primitive requires the same response from the CD provider as if a CD_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex CD_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive immediately followed by a CD_READ_REQ
@prindex CD_READ_REQ
primitive were to be issued.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, this primitive requires an error acknowledgement using the CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive with the error indicated.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} appropriate non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADADDRESS
@peindex CD_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.

@item CD_BADADDRTYPE
@peindex CD_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_READTIMEOUT
@peindex CD_READTIMEOUT
Read request timed out before data arrived.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@item CD_WRITEFAIL
@peindex CD_WRITEFAIL
Unit data request failed.

@end table

@page
@node Lead and Signal Service Primitives
@section Lead and Signal Service Primitives

@menu
* Message CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (cd_modem_sig_ind_t)::
* Message CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (cd_modem_sig_poll_t)::
* Message CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (cd_modem_sig_req_t)::
@end menu

@page
@node Message CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (cd_modem_sig_ind_t)
@subsection Message CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (cd_modem_sig_ind_t)
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
@tpindex cd_modem_sig_ind_t
@anchor{CD_MODEM_SIG_IND}
@anchor{cd_modem_sig_ind_t}

This provider originated primitive indicates the status of a number of modem lines and signals.  This primitive is
issued in response to a change in modem signals or in response to a CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL
primitive.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_sigs;
@} cd_modem_sig_ind_t;
@tpindex cd_modem_sig_ind_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.

@item cd_sigs
Indicates the state of specific modem lines and signals as a bitwise OR of any of the following flags (when the flag is
set, the signal is asserted):

@table @var

@item CD_DTR
@pvindex CD_DTR
Data terminal ready.

@item CD_RTS
@pvindex CD_RTS
Request to send.

@item CD_DSR
@pvindex CD_DSR
Data set ready.

@item CD_DCD
@pvindex CD_DCD
Data carrier detect.

@item CD_CTS
@pvindex CD_CTS
Clear to send.

@item CD_RI
@pvindex CD_RI
Ring indicator.

@end table

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive can be issued by the CD provider in any state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is unchanged.

@page
@node Message CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (cd_modem_sig_poll_t)
@subsection Message CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (cd_modem_sig_poll_t)
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL
@tpindex cd_modem_sig_poll_t
@anchor{CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL}
@anchor{cd_modem_sig_poll_t}

This user originated primitive request that the CD provider respond with a CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
indicating the current state of modem lines and signals.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
@} cd_modem_sig_poll_t;
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state other than CD_UNUSABLE
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
or CD_UNATTACHED,
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
and where a local acknowledgement is not pending.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is unchanged.

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the CD provider to respond with an acknowledgement message as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
When successful, the CD provider response with a CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
indicating the state of modem leads and signals.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
When unsuccessful, the CD provider responds with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
primitive indicating the reason for failure.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_DISC
@peindex CD_DISC
Disconnected.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@page
@node Message CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (cd_modem_sig_req_t)
@subsection Message CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (cd_modem_sig_req_t)
@prindex CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ
@tpindex cd_modem_sig_req_t
@anchor{CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ}
@anchor{cd_modem_sig_req_t}

This user originated primitive request that the CD provider assert or de-assert the specified modem leads and signals.

@subsubheading Message Format

This primitive consists of one M_PROTO message block structured as follows:

@example
typedef struct @{
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_sigs;
@} cd_modem_sig_req_t;
@tpindex cd_modem_sig_req_t
@end example

@subsubheading Parameters

This primitive contains the following parameters:

@vtable @var

@item cd_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.

@item cd_sigs
Specifies the signals to assert or de-assert, and is a bitwise OR of the following flags:

@table @var

@item CD_DTR
@pvindex CD_DTR
Data terminal ready.

@item CD_RTS
@pvindex CD_RTS
Request to send.

@item CD_DSR
@pvindex CD_DSR
Data set ready.

@item CD_DCD
@pvindex CD_DCD
Data carrier detect.

@item CD_CTS
@pvindex CD_CTS
Clear to send.

@item CD_RI
@pvindex CD_RI
Ring indicator.

@end table

If the flag is set in @var{cd_sigs}, the corresponding lead will be asserted.  If the flag is clear, the corresponding
lead will be de-asserted.  Flags that are not output leads and are input leads only (such as CD_DCD) are ignored.

@end vtable

@subsubheading State

This primitive is valid in any state other than CD_UNATTACHED
@stindex CD_UNATTACHED
or CD_UNUSABLE,
@stindex CD_UNUSABLE
and where a local acknowledgement is not pending.

@subsubheading New State

The state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Response

This primitive requires the CD provider to acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:

@itemize @minus

@item @b{Successful:}
Upon success, the CD provider acknowledges receipt of the primitive with a CD_OK_ACK
@prindex CD_OK_ACK
primitive.  The state remains unchanged.

@item @b{Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):}
Upon failure, the CD provider acknowledges receipt of the primitive with a CD_ERROR_ACK
@prindex CD_ERROR_ACK
indicating the reason for failure in the error number.  The state remains unchanged.

@end itemize

@subsubheading Reasons for Failure

@b{Non-Fatal Errors:} applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @var

@item CD_BADPRIM
@peindex CD_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.

@item CD_EVENT
@peindex CD_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.

@item CD_FATALERR
@peindex CD_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.

@item CD_NOTSUPP
@peindex CD_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.

@item CD_OUTSTATE
@peindex CD_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item CD_PROTOSHORT
@peindex CD_PROTOSHORT
M_PROTO block too short.

@item CD_SYSERR
@peindex CD_SYSERR
UNIX system error.

@end table

@node Allowable Sequence of CDI Primitives
@chapter Allowable Sequence of CDI Primitives

@node Precedence of CDI Primitives
@chapter Precedence of CDI Primitives

@node Guidelines for Protocol Independent CDS Users
@appendix Guidelines for Protocol Independent CDS Users

@node Required Information for CDS Provider-Specific Addenda
@appendix Required Information for CDS Provider-Specific Addenda

@node CDI Header File
@appendix CDI Header File

@smallexample
@verbatim
#ifndef _SYS_CDI_H
#define _SYS_CDI_H

#ident "@(#) cdi.h 1.20 11/17/03"

/* This file can be processed by doxygen(1). */

/// @file
/// @brief This header file provides the Communications Device Interface (CDI).

/* 
   cdi.h header for Communications Device Interface

   Copyright (c) 1989 NCR Comten

   This file distributed by Gcom, Inc with permission of NCR Comten
 */

/* 
   Primitives for Local Management Services
 */
#define CD_INFO_REQ             0x00    /* Information request */
#define CD_INFO_ACK             0x01    /* Information acknowledgement */
#define CD_ATTACH_REQ           0x02    /* Attach a PPA */
#define CD_DETACH_REQ           0x03    /* Detach a PPA */
#define CD_ENABLE_REQ           0x04    /* Prepare a device */
#define CD_DISABLE_REQ          0x05    /* Disable a device */
#define CD_OK_ACK               0x06    /* Success acknowledgement */
#define CD_ERROR_ACK            0x07    /* Error acknowledgement */
#define CD_ENABLE_CON           0x08    /* Enable confirmation */
#define CD_DISABLE_CON          0x09    /* Disable confirmation */
#define CD_ERROR_IND            0x0a    /* Error indication */

/* 
   Primitives used for Data Transfer
 */
#define CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ      0x0b    /* Allow input */
#define CD_READ_REQ             0x0c    /* Wait-for-input request */
#define CD_UNITDATA_REQ         0x0d    /* Data send request */
#define CD_WRITE_READ_REQ       0x0e    /* Write/read request */
#define CD_UNITDATA_ACK         0x0f    /* Data send acknowledgement */
#define CD_UNITDATA_IND         0x10    /* Data receive indication */
#define CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ       0x11    /* Halt input */
#define CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ     0x12    /* Abort output */
#define CD_MUX_NAME_REQ         0x13    /* get mux name (Gcom) */
#define CD_BAD_FRAME_IND        0x14    /* frame w/error (Gcom extension) */
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ        0x15    /* Assert modem signals (Gcom) */
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_IND        0x16    /* Report modem signal state (Gcom) */
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL       0x17    /* requests a CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (Gcom) */

/* 
   CDI device states
 */
#define CD_UNATTACHED           0x00    /* No PPA attached */
#define CD_UNUSABLE             0x01    /* PPA cannot be used */
#define CD_DISABLED             0x02    /* PPA attached */
#define CD_ENABLE_PENDING       0x03    /* Waiting ack of enable req */
#define CD_ENABLED              0x04    /* Awaiting use */
#define CD_READ_ACTIVE          0x05    /* Input section enabled; */
                                        /* disabled after data arrives */
#define CD_INPUT_ALLOWED        0x06    /* Input section permanently enabled */
#define CD_DISABLE_PENDING      0x07    /* Waiting ack of disable req */
#define CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE        0x08    /* Output section active only */
#define CD_XRAY                 0x09    /* Xray-ing another ppa */
#define CD_NOT_AUTH             0x0A    /* Not authorized, unusable */

/* 
   CD_ERROR_ACK and CD_ERROR_IND error return values
 */
#define CD_BADADDRESS           0x01    /* Address was invalid */
#define CD_BADADDRTYPE          0x02    /* Invalid address type */
#define CD_BADDIAL              0x03    /* Dial information was invalid */
#define CD_BADDIALTYPE          0x04    /* Invalid dial information type */
#define CD_BADDISPOSAL          0x05    /* Invalid disposal parameter */
#define CD_BADFRAME             0x06    /* Defective SDU received */
#define CD_BADPPA               0x07    /* Invalid PPA identifier */
#define CD_BADPRIM              0x08    /* Unrecognized primitive */
#define CD_DISC                 0x09    /* Disconnected */
#define CD_EVENT                0x0a    /* Protocol-specific event occurred */
#define CD_FATALERR             0x0b    /* Device has become unusable */
#define CD_INITFAILED           0x0c    /* Line initialization failed */
#define CD_NOTSUPP              0x0d    /* Primitive not supported by this device */
#define CD_OUTSTATE             0x0e    /* Primitive was issued from an invalid state */
#define CD_PROTOSHORT           0x0f    /* M_PROTO block too short */
#define CD_READTIMEOUT          0x10    /* Read request timed out before data arrived */
#define CD_SYSERR               0x11    /* UNIX system error */
#define CD_WRITEFAIL            0x12    /* Unitdata request failed */

/* 
   Error explanations
 */
#define CD_CRCERR               0x01    /* CRC or FCS error */
#define CD_DLE_EOT              0x02    /* DLE EOT detected */
#define CD_FORMAT               0x03    /* Format error detected */
#define CD_HDLC_ABORT           0x04    /* Aborted frame detected */
#define CD_OVERRUN              0x05    /* Input overrun */
#define CD_TOOSHORT             0x06    /* Frame too short */
#define CD_INCOMPLETE           0x07    /* Partial frame received */
#define CD_BUSY                 0x08    /* Telephone was busy */
#define CD_NOANSWER             0x09    /* Connection went unanswered */
#define CD_CALLREJECT           0x0a    /* Connection rejected */
#define CD_HDLC_IDLE            0x0b    /* HDLC line went idle */
#define CD_HDLC_NOTIDLE         0x0c    /* HDLC line no longer idle */
#define CD_QUIESCENT            0x0d    /* Line being reassigned */
#define CD_RESUMED              0x0e    /* Line has been reassigned */
#define CD_DSRTIMEOUT           0x0f    /* Did not see DSR in time */
#define CD_LAN_COLLISIONS       0x10    /* LAN excessive collisions */
#define CD_LAN_REFUSED          0x11    /* LAN message refused */
#define CD_LAN_NOSTATION        0x12    /* LAN no such station */
#define CD_LOSTCTS              0x13    /* Lost Clear to Send signal */
#define CD_DEVERR               0x100   /* Start of device-specific codes */

/* 
   CDI device classes
 */
#define CD_HDLC         0x00    /* Bit-synchronous */
#define CD_BISYNC       0x01    /* Character-synchronous */
#define CD_LAN          0x02    /* ISO 8802-3,4,5 local-area network MAC */
#define CD_NODEV        0x03    /* no device, ppa used for X-ray */

/* 
   CDI duplex types
 */
#define CD_FULLDUPLEX   0x00    /* Full duplex; allow input supported */
#define CD_HALFDUPLEX   0x01    /* Half duplex; read and write/read supported */

/* 
   CDI output styles
 */
#define CD_UNACKEDOUTPUT 0x00   /* No unitdata acknowledgements */
#define CD_ACKEDOUTPUT   0x01   /* Unitdata acknowledgements */
#define CD_PACEDOUTPUT   0x02   /* Unitdata acks as output timing hints */

/* 
   CDI optional features
 */
#define CD_CANREAD      0x01    /* Read request supported on full duplex */
#define CD_CANDIAL      0x02    /* Dial information supported */
#define CD_AUTOALLOW    0x04    /* CD_INPUT_ALLOWED as soon as enabled */
#define CD_KEEPALIVE    0x08    /* Gcom: Don't send off at CD_DISABLE_REQ */

/* 
   CDI provider style.

   The CDI provider style which determines whether a provider requires a
   CD_ATTACH_REQ to inform the provider which PPA user messages should be
   sent/received on.
 */
#define CD_STYLE1       0x00    /* PPA is implicitly bound by open(2) */
#define CD_STYLE2       0x01    /* PPA must be explicitly bound via CD_ATTACH_REQ */
#define CD_STYLE_1      CD_STYLE1       /* Gcom -- to match document */
#define CD_STYLE_2      CD_STYLE2       /* Gcom -- to match document */

/* 
   Symbolic value for "no dialing information"
 */
#define CD_NODIAL       0x00

/* 
   Actions to take with undelivered data in a CD_DISABLE_REQ or
 CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ
 */
#define CD_FLUSH        0x00    /* Discard undelivered data */
#define CD_WAIT         0x01    /* Attempt to deliver unsent data */
#define CD_DELIVER      0x02

/* 
   Address types
 */
#define CD_SPECIFIC     0x00    /* Specific address follows */
#define CD_BROADCAST    0x01    /* Broadcast; no address follows */
#define CD_IMPLICIT     0x02    /* No address or embedded address */

/* 
   Error types for CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
 */

#define CD_FRMTOOLONG   0xFFFF  /* frame overflowed rcv bfr */
#define CD_FRMNONOCTET  0xFFFE  /* frame not octet-aligned */
#define CD_EMPTY_BFR    0xFFFD  /* empty rcv buffer (not used) */
#define CD_BAD_CRC      0xFFFC  /* CRC error */
#define CD_FRM_ABORTED  0xFFFB  /* frame aborted */
#define CD_RCV_OVERRUN  0xFFFA  /* receive overrun */

/* 
   Modem signal bits for modem signal related requests and indications
 */
#define CD_DTR          0x01
#define CD_RTS          0x02
#define CD_DSR          0x04
#define CD_DCD          0x08
#define CD_CTS          0x10
#define CD_RI           0x20

/* 
   CDI interface primitive definitions.

   Each primitive is sent as a Stream message.  It is possible that the messages
   may be viewed as a sequence of bytes that have the following form without any
   padding. The structure definition of the following messages may have to
   change depending on the underlying hardware architecture and crossing of a
   hardware boundary with a different hardware architecture.

   Each message has the name defined followed by the Stream message type
   (M_PROTO, M_PCPROTO, M_DATA)
 */
#ifdef __LP64__
typedef int32_t cd_long;
typedef u_int32_t cd_ulong;
typedef u_int16_t cd_ushort;
#else                           /* __LP64__ */
typedef long cd_long;
typedef ulong cd_ulong;
typedef ushort cd_ushort;
#endif                          /* __LP64__ */

/* 
        LOCAL MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES
 */

/* 
   CD_INFO_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
} cd_info_req_t;

/* 
   CD_INFO_ACK, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_max_sdu;
        cd_ulong cd_min_sdu;
        cd_ulong cd_class;
        cd_ulong cd_duplex;
        cd_ulong cd_output_style;
        cd_ulong cd_features;
        cd_ulong cd_addr_length;
        cd_ulong cd_ppa_style;
} cd_info_ack_t;

/* 
   CD_ATTACH_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_ppa;
} cd_attach_req_t;

/* 
   CD_DETACH_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
} cd_detach_req_t;

/* 
   CD_ENABLE_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_dial_type;
        cd_ulong cd_dial_length;
        cd_ulong cd_dial_offset;
} cd_enable_req_t;

/* 
   CD_DISABLE_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_disposal;
} cd_disable_req_t;

/* 
   CD_OK_ACK, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_correct_primitive;
} cd_ok_ack_t;

/* 
   CD_ERROR_ACK, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_error_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_errno;
        cd_ulong cd_explanation;
} cd_error_ack_t;

/* 
   CD_ENABLE_CON, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
} cd_enable_con_t;

/* 
   CD_DISABLE_CON, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
} cd_disable_con_t;

/* 
   CD_ERROR_IND, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_errno;
        cd_ulong cd_explanation;
} cd_error_ind_t;

/* 
        DATA TRANSFER PRIMITIVES
 */

/* 
   CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
} cd_allow_input_req_t;

/* 
   CD_READ_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_msec;
} cd_read_req_t;

/* 
   CD_UNITDATA_REQ, optional M_PROTO type, with M_DATA block(s)
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ushort cd_addr_type;
        cd_ushort cd_priority;
        cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
        cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
} cd_unitdata_req_t;

/* 
   CD_WRITE_READ_REQ, M_PROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_unitdata_req_t cd_unitdata_req;
        cd_read_req_t cd_read_req;
} cd_write_read_req_t;

/* 
   CD_UNITDATA_ACK, M_PROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
} cd_unitdata_ack_t;

/* 
   CD_UNITDATA_IND, optional M_PROTO type, with M_DATA block(s)
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_src_addr_length;
        cd_ulong cd_src_addr_offset;
        cd_ushort cd_addr_type;
        cd_ushort cd_priority;
        cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
        cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
} cd_unitdata_ind_t;

/* 
   CD_BAD_FRAME_IND, M_PROTO type, with M_DATA block(s)
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_state;
        cd_ulong cd_error;              /* what is wrong with the frame */

} cd_bad_frame_ind_t;

/* 
   CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ, M_PROTO type

   Assert the modem signals with '1' bits in the cd_sigs mask and drop those
   signals with '0' bits.  Sensed modem signals such as DCD or CTS are ignored.
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_sigs;

} cd_modem_sig_req_t;

/* 
   CD_MODEM_SIG_IND, M_PROTO type

   The cd_sigs field reports the current state of the modem signals.  This
   message is sent when modem signals change at the hardware interface.  Only
   changes in signals selected by the cd_modem_sig_enb_req_t cd_sigs mask will
   be evaluated for purposes of change detection.
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_sigs;

} cd_modem_sig_ind_t;

typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;

} cd_modem_sig_poll_t;

/* 
   CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_ulong cd_disposal;
} cd_halt_input_req_t;

/* 
   CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ, M_PROTO or M_PCPROTO type
 */
typedef struct {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
} cd_abort_output_req_t;

union CD_primitives {
        cd_ulong cd_primitive;
        cd_info_req_t info_req;
        cd_info_ack_t info_ack;
        cd_attach_req_t attach_req;
        cd_detach_req_t detach_req;
        cd_enable_req_t enable_req;
        cd_disable_req_t disable_req;
        cd_ok_ack_t ok_ack;
        cd_error_ack_t error_ack;
        cd_allow_input_req_t allow_input_req;
        cd_read_req_t read_req;
        cd_unitdata_req_t unitdata_req;
        cd_write_read_req_t write_read_req;
        cd_unitdata_ack_t unitdata_ack;
        cd_unitdata_ind_t unitdata_ind;
        cd_halt_input_req_t halt_input_req;
        cd_abort_output_req_t abort_output_req;
        cd_error_ind_t error_ind;
        cd_enable_con_t enable_con;
        cd_disable_con_t disable_con;
        cd_bad_frame_ind_t bad_frame_ind;
        cd_modem_sig_req_t modem_sig_req;
        cd_modem_sig_ind_t modem_sig_ind;
        cd_modem_sig_poll_t modem_sig_poll;
};

#define CD_INFO_REQ_SIZE                sizeof(cd_info_req_t)
#define CD_INFO_ACK_SIZE                sizeof(cd_info_ack_t)
#define CD_ATTACH_REQ_SIZE              sizeof(cd_attach_req_t)
#define CD_DETACH_REQ_SIZE              sizeof(cd_detach_req_t)
#define CD_ENABLE_REQ_SIZE              sizeof(cd_enable_req_t)
#define CD_DISABLE_REQ_SIZE             sizeof(cd_disable_req_t)
#define CD_OK_ACK_SIZE                  sizeof(cd_ok_ack_t)
#define CD_ERROR_ACK_SIZE               sizeof(cd_error_ack_t)
#define CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ_SIZE         sizeof(cd_allow_input_req_t)
#define CD_READ_REQ_SIZE                sizeof(cd_read_req_t)
#define CD_UNITDATA_REQ_SIZE            sizeof(cd_unitdata_req_t)
#define CD_WRITE_READ_REQ_SIZE          sizeof(cd_write_read_req_t)
#define CD_UNITDATA_ACK_SIZE            sizeof(cd_unitdata_ack_t)
#define CD_UNITDATA_IND_SIZE            sizeof(cd_unitdata_ind_t)
#define CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ_SIZE          sizeof(cd_halt_input_req_t)
#define CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ_SIZE        sizeof(cd_abort_output_req_t)
#define CD_ERROR_IND_SIZE               sizeof(cd_error_ind_t)
#define CD_ENABLE_CON_SIZE              sizeof(cd_enable_con_t)
#define CD_DISABLE_CON_SIZE             sizeof(cd_disable_con_t)
#define CD_BAD_FRAME_IND_SIZE           sizeof(cd_bad_frame_ind_t)
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ_SIZE           sizeof(cd_modem_sig_req_t)
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_IND_SIZE           sizeof(cd_modem_sig_ind_t)
#define CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL_SIZE          sizeof(cd_modem_sig_poll_t)

#endif                          /* _SYS_CDI_H */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@node Glossary of CDI Terms and Acronyms
@appendix Glossary of CDI Terms and Acronyms

@node References
@unnumbered References

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
