'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strisdn.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:48:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:48:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strisdn.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:48:54  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/08 11:36:18  brian
.\" - added package manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH @PACKAGE_UCNAME@ 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
.BR streams (5),
consists of a base package that provides basic
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
capabilities for
.B Linux
and a number of separate add-on packages.
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on
UNIX systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or,
in this case, where functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of
implementations.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of the several optional add-on packages that provide support for ISDN and is
part of the thrust of the
.IR "OpenSS7 Project" .
.[
%T The OpenSS7 Project
%O http://www.openss7.org
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that
implement the
.I STREAMS
ISDN subsystem.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers (as kernel modules):
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B streams_lapd.ko
driver
.IR /dev/lapd .
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.B streams_isdn.ko
driver
.IR /dev/isdn .
.PD
.PP
The following are
.I STREAMS
modules installed by the
.B @PACKAGE@
package:
.TP
.BR lapd (4)
The
.BR lapd (4)
driver is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that links
.BR hdlc (4)
Streams beneath it.  It uses the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
at its lower multiplex boundary and the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
at its upper multiplex boundary.
.TP
.BR isdn (4)
The
.BR isdn (4)
driver is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that links
.BR lapd (4)
or
.BR iua (4)
Streams beneath it.  It uses the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
at its lower multiplex boundary and the Call Control Interface (CCI),
.BR cci (7),
at its upper multiplex boundary.
.TP
.BR capi (4)
The
.BR capi (4)
driver is an implementation of the Common ISDN API (CAPI), Version 2.0.
.[
capi20
.]
This driver provides
.I STREAMS
access
(both
.IR STREAMS -based
CAPI as well as the
Call Control Interface (CCI),
.BR cci (7))
to
.B Linux
CAPI devices as well as providing Linux CAPI access to
.BR isdn (4),
.BR dass (4)
and
.BR dpnss (4)
devices.
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR dass (4)
The
.BR dass (4)
driver is a DASS
.[
dass2
.]
version of the
.BR isdn (4)
driver.
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR dpnss (4)
The
.BR dpnss (4)
driver is a DPNSS
.[
dpnss1
.]
version of the
.BR isdn (4)
driver.
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR gr303 (4)
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR v52 (4)
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR idlc (4)
.IP ""
This driver is currently incomplete.
.TP
.BR lapf (4)
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package also provides the following service interface definitions:
.TP
.BR cci (7)
The
Call Control Interface (CCI),
.BR cci (7),
is a call control interface for use by ISDN, ISUP, H.323, SIPT and BICC,
developed by the OpenSS7 Project.  Because
.BR strisdn (5)
is the first add-on package in the dependency chain to require the Call
Control Interface, it also provides the interface.  This interface is also
used by the
.BR strss7 (5),
.BR sigtran (5)
and
.BR strvoip (5)
add-on packages.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package represents ISDN components that were previously part of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package, but which were separated into this package at the end of 2006.  Although this manual page
documents all commercial components in the
.BR strisdn (5)
package, not all components have been released publicly.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.HP
.BR @PACKAGE@ (5)\ \-\ 
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR @PACKAGE@_mknod (8)\ \-\ 
create or remove
.I STREAMS
VOIP device nodes.
.PD
.\"
.PP
.HP
.BR capi (4)\ \-\ 
Common ISDN API (CAPI) Device Driver.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR capi_ioctl (4)\ \-\ 
COMMON-ISDN-API (CAPI) - IO Controls.
.HP
.BR dass (4)\ \-\ 
OpenSS7 ISDN Devices.
.HP
.BR dl_gr303 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR dl_lapd (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR dl_lapf (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR dl_v52 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR dpnss (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR gr303 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR gr303_ioctl (4)\ \-\ 
common IO controls for GR.303 devices.
.HP
.BR idlc (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR ISDN (4)\ \-\ 
OpenSS7 ISDN Devices.
.HP
.BR isdn (4)\ \-\ 
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Driver.
.HP
.BR isdn_undoc (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR lapd (4)\ \-\ 
Link Access Procedure\(ewD-Channel (LAPD) Driver.
.HP
.BR lapf (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR q921 (4)\ \-\ 
Link Access Procedure\(ewD-Channel (LAPD) Driver.
.HP
.BR q922 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR q931 (4)\ \-\ 
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Driver.
.HP
.BR v52 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR v5 (4)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN modules and devices.
.HP
.BR v5_ioctl (4)\ \-\ 
common IO controls for V5.2 devices.
.PD

.HP
.BR capi (7)\ \-\ 
Linux CAPI 2.0 Interface.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR cci (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface.
.HP
.BR cci_capi (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.HP
.BR cci_dass (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.HP
.BR cci_gr303 (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.HP
.BR cci_idlc (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.HP
.BR cci_isdn (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.PD

.HP
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
provide call control address information.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR CC_ADDR_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request call control address information.
.HP
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7)\ \-\ 
called CCS User alerted indication.
.HP
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
called CCS user alerted request.
.HP
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
bind protocol address acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
bind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_CON (7)\ \-\ 
circuit management blocking confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_IND (7)\ \-\ 
circuit management blocking indication.
.HP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
circuit management blocking request.
.HP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_RES (7)\ \-\ 
circuit management blocking response.
.HP
.BR CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call failure indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call reattempt indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CONNECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
connection indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CONNECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
connection request.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)\ \-\ 
continuity check indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
continuity check request.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
continuity report indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
continuity report request.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)\ \-\ 
continuity test indication.
.HP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
continuity test request.
.HP
.BR CC_DATALINK_FAILURE_IND (7)\ \-\ 
datalink failure indication.
.HP
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
disconnect indication.
.HP
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
disconnect request.
.HP
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
error acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CC_ERROR_IND (7)\ \-\ 
error indication.
.HP
.BR CC_FACILITY_IND (7)\ \-\ 
facility indication.
.HP
.BR CC_FACILITY_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
facility request.
.HP
.BR CC_FORWXFER_IND (7)\ \-\ 
forward transfer indication.
.HP
.BR CC_FORWXFER_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
forward transfer request.
.HP
.BR CC_HOLD_CON (7)\ \-\ 
hold confirm.
.HP
.BR CC_HOLD_IND (7)\ \-\ 
hold indication.
.HP
.BR CC_HOLD_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
hold request.
.HP
.BR CC_HOLD_RES (7)\ \-\ 
hold response.
.HP
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)\ \-\ 
in-band information indication.
.HP
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
in-band information request.
.HP
.BR CC_INFO_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
information acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CC_INFO_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
information request.
.HP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)\ \-\ 
information indication.
.HP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
information request.
.HP
.BR CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
information timeout indication.
.HP
.BR CC_MAINT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
maintenance indication.
.HP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_IND (7)\ \-\ 
more information indication.
.HP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
more information request.
.HP
.BR CC_NOTIFY_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call control notification indication.
.HP
.BR CC_NOTIFY_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call control notification request.
.HP
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
successful receipt acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
options management acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
options management request.
.HP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call proceeding indication.
.HP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call proceeding request.
.HP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call progress indication.
.HP
.BR CC_QUERY_CON (7)\ \-\ 
circuit query confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call progress request.
.HP
.BR CC_QUERY_IND (7)\ \-\ 
circuit query indication.
.HP
.BR CC_QUERY_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
circuit query request.
.HP
.BR CC_QUERY_RES (7)\ \-\ 
circuit query response.
.HP
.BR CC_REGISTER_IND (7)\ \-\ 
registration indication.
.HP
.BR CC_REGISTER_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
registration request.
.HP
.BR CC_REJECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call reject indication.
.HP
.BR CC_REJECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call reject request.
.HP
.BR CC_RELEASE_CON (7)\ \-\ 
call release confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call release indication.
.HP
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call release request.
.HP
.BR CC_RELEASE_RES (7)\ \-\ 
call release response.
.HP
.BR CC_RESET_CON (7)\ \-\ 
circuit reset confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)\ \-\ 
circuit reset indication.
.HP
.BR CC_RESET_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
circuit reset request.
.HP
.BR CC_RESET_RES (7)\ \-\ 
circuit reset response.
.HP
.BR CC_RESTART_CON (7)\ \-\ 
interface restart confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_RESTART_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
interface restart request.
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_CON (7)\ \-\ 
call resume confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call resume indication.
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call resume reject indication.
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call resume reject request..
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call resume request.
.HP
.BR CC_RESUME_RES (7)\ \-\ 
call resume response.
.HP
.BR CC_RETRIEVE_CON (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR CC_RETRIEVE_IND (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR CC_RETRIEVE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR CC_RETRIEVE_RES (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call setup complete indication.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call setup complete request.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)\ \-\ 
call setup confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call setup indication.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call setup request.
.HP
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)\ \-\ 
call setup response.
.HP
.BR CC_START_RESET_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call control start reset indication.
.HP
.BR CC_STATUS_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call control status indication.
.HP
.BR CC_STOP_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call control stop indication.
.HP
.BR CC_STOP_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call control stop request.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_CON (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend indication.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend reject indication.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend reject request.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend request.
.HP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_RES (7)\ \-\ 
call suspend response.
.HP
.BR CC_UNBIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
unbind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_CON (7)\ \-\ 
circuit unblocking confirmation.
.HP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_IND (7)\ \-\ 
circuit unblocking indication.
.HP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
circuit unblocking request.
.HP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_RES (7)\ \-\ 
circuit unblocking response.
.PD

.HP
.BR dlpi_dass (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR dlpi_gr303 (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR dlpi_lapd (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR dlpi_lapf (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR isdn_undoc (7)\ \-\ 
undocumented ISDN protocols and interfaces.
.HP
.BR isdni (7)\ \-\ 
Call Control Interface\(emCorrigendum for Q.931/Q.932 Conformance
.HP
.BR npi_q933 (7)\ \-\ 
.PD

.HP
.BR isdn (8)\ \-\ 
undocumented commands.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR isdn_undoc (8)\ \-\ 
undocumented commands.
.HP
.BR isdnconfd (8)\ \-\ 
undocumented commands.
.HP
.BR strisdn_mknod (8)\ \-\ 
create or remove
.I STREAMS
ISDN device nodes.
.HP
.BR test-isdn (8)\ \-\ 
test suite executable for
.BR ch (4)
.I STREAMS
module.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
devices:
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
.BR streams (5),
development environment and run-time necessary for all package components.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the avilability of the
.BR strcompat (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for most of the package
components.  Most
.B @PACKAGE@
components use the helper functions from the OpenSS7 Compatibility Module or
the Mentat Portable STREAMS Compatibility Module.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strxns (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Some package components use the
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
or
.BR npi (7)
definitions available in this package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strxnet (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Some package components use the
.BR tpi (7)
definitions available in the package.
.TP
.BR strnsl (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strnsl (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Some package components provide
.BR netconfig (5)
definitions.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strsock (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Some package components provide
.BR sock2path (5)
definitions.
.TP
.BR strinet (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strinet (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Some package components use the
.BR tcp (4),
or
.BR udp (4)
protocol drivers from the
.BR strinet (5)
package.
.TP
.BR strsctp (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the availability of the
.BR strsctp (5)
deveopment environment and run-time necessary for all SIGTRAN components.
(All SIGTRAN components use SCTP.)
.[
rfc2960
.]
.TP
.BR striso (5)
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the avialability of the
.BR striso (5)
development environment and run-time necessary for some package components.
Also, the
.BR striso (5)
package provides components upon which the
.BR strisdn (5)
package depend.
.PP
The easiest way to satisfy all of the package dependencies for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is to obtain it as part of the
.IR "OpenSS7 Master Package" ,
.BR openss7 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous releases of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.I Production
releases are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project
and validated on specific distributions and architectures.
.I Production
release packages do not ship with known defects.  Please remember that there
is
.B NO WARRANTY
on public release packages.
.PP
.I Production
packages ship containing a list of validated distributions and architectures.
Full regression testing of any maintenance changes is performed.  Suitability
of software in this category for production use on the specified target
distributions and architecturs is at the discretion of the user.  It should
not be necessary to perform validation tests on the set of supported target
systems before considering production use.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a
.I production
release.  Nevertheless, some remaining unknown defects could possibly be
harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
and external entities on this software for the set of systems listed in the
release notes.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to configure or
compile on other systems.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you validate this software for your target system before using
this software.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" ,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I production
software.  As such, it is stable on validated systems but might still crash
your kernel in unique circumstances.  Installation of the software on a
non-validated distribution might mangel your header files or Linux
distribution in such a way as to make it unusable and rebooting the system
might not repair the problem.  You could possibly lose all the data on your
system.  Because this software stands a chance of crashing your kernel, the
resulting unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or
peripherals making them unusable.  You might void the warranty on any system
on which you run this fotware.
.BR "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, but is considered alpha
grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.  Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ISDN (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
Application programming interfaces for ISDN and other modules
and drivers have not been standardized by a formal standards body.  For the
most part, ISDN implementations have used proprietary interfaces for accessing
the various protocol layers of the ISDN stack.
.PP
The
.I OpenSS7 Project
also uses project-specific (but open) interfaces at a number of layers where a standard
is lacking.  Nevertheless, standard service interfaces are used for a number of
layers in the ISDN components and even in the upper level ISDN components.
These standardized service interfaces are based on the
Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
and the Call Control Interface (CCI),
.BR cci (7).
.PP
.I OpenSS7 Project
ISDN components use the same interfaces as are provided for use by SS7/ISDN
components at the same protocol level.  This makes
.I OpenSS7 Project
ISDN components automatically compatible with OpenSS7 SS7
and ISDN components.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
In general, there are few conformance specifications to which to test ISDN
components.  Nevertheless, a few exist as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IP \(bu
.PP
For additional description of conformance and validation test suites and the
standards to which the tests are performed, see the manual page for the
appropriate protocol driver or module.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The contents of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were formerly part of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package.  As of
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ,
the ISDN components were moved out of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package into this
.BR strisdn (5)
package.  This package now contains all of the ISDN components released by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" ,
along with associated documentation.
.PP
In the initial release of the
.BR strisdn (5)
package, only ISDN modules and drivers that have been fully revalidated on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
were initially released.  The remaining components present on the CVS archive and formerly part of the commercial
.BR strss7 (5)
releases, will be publicly released in releases subsequent to
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
as they are revalidated.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATUS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is
.I production
grade on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for the modules and drivers included in the public release.  Not all OpenSS7
project ISDN modules and drivers have been included in the release
distribution.  The OpenSS7 Project is in the process of revalidating all
package modules and drivers for use on
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
As a result, additional release components will be strapped into the package
once full validation test suites are developed and run against each
component.
.PP
In particular, the following modules and drivers are currently missing from
the public release:
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
