'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/ifrdlciconf.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH IFRTEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B ifrdlciconf
\- Frame Relay DLCI File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ifrdlciconf
describes the file format for input to the
.BR ifrdlci (8)
command for IP over Frame Relay.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the IP over Frame Relay configuration parameters corresponds to the
member and values of the
.B ifr_dlci
structure, that is carried in the
.BR IFR_ADD ", " IFR_GET ", " IFR_DEL
input-output controls.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created Frame Relay subnetwork VC, correspond
directly to the protocol parameters and defaults in
Q.922
.[
q922
.]
and Q.933.
.[
q933
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The IFR template consists of 6 or more lines containing the following configuration
information:
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B CIR
(Committed Information Rate)
is the committed rate at which Frame Relay transfers information to the remote under normal
conditions, averaged over the interval \*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq, where
\*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq is calculated as the quotient of \fBBc\fP and \fBCIR\fP.  The value is a decimal
number in units of bits per second.
.IP 2.
.B Bc
(Committed Burst Size)
is the maximum burst of committed data that Frame Relay transfers to the remote under normal conditions,
during time interval \*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq, where
\*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq is calculated as the quotient of \fBBc\fP and \fBCIR\fP.  The value is a decimal
number in units of bits.
.IP 3.
.B Be
(Excess Burst Size)
is the maximum burst of uncommitted data, in excess of \fBBc\fP, that Frame Relay attempts to
tranfer under exceptional conditions, during time interval \*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq, where
\*(lq\fBT\fP\*(rq is calculated as the quotient of \fBBc\fP and \fBCIR\fP.  The value is a decimal
number in units of bits.
.IP 4.
.B DELAY
(End-to-End Transit Delay)
is the on-way transit delay for Frame Relay information transfers, including the processing time at
both local and remote stations, under normal conditions.  The value is an integral decimal number in
units of milliseconds.
.IP 5.
.B STEPCOUNT
is a value used by IFR when transmitting frames to increase or reduce the CIR.  When IFR receives
this number of consecutive frames with the BECN bit set, it reduces the CIR to the next step rate
below the current offered rate.  When it receives half this number of consecutive frames with the
BECN bit clear, it increases its CIR.  The value is a decimal number in units of frames, with a
minimum of two (2) frames.  The default value is eigth (8) frames.
.IP 6.
.B FLOWSTYLE
specifies the type of congestion control used by IFR.  This can be one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
c1c1l.
0x01:\-:FECN
0x02:\-:BECN
0x04:\-:CLLM
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ifrdlci (8),
.BR ifr (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B ifrdlciconf
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR ifrdlci (8),
.BR ifr (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B ifrdlciconf
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
