'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lapbtune.5.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lapbtune.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:40  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LAPBTUNE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lapbtune
\- LAPB tuning structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/snet/ll_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct lapbtune {
    uint16_t N2;                   /* max numb retransmissions */
    uint16_t T1;                   /* ack timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t Tpf;                  /* poll timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t Trej;                 /* reject timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t Tbusy;                /* busy timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t Tidle;                /* idle timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t ack_delay;            /* ack delay timer (deciseconds) */
    uint16_t notack_max;           /* max unacked I-frames */
    uint16_t tx_window;            /* transmit window (no XID) */
    uint16_t tx_probe;             /* window probe position */
    uint16_t max_I_len;            /* max I-frame size */
#define IGN_UA_ERROR       (1<<0)  /* ignore UA frames in error state */
#define FRMR_FRMR_ERROR    (1<<1)  /* retrans FRMR on FRMR in error state */
#define FRMR_INVRSP_ERROR  (1<<2)  /* trans FRMR on invalid frame resp. in error state */
#define SFRAME_PBIT        (1<<3)  /* send FRMR for S-Frame w/o p-bit set */
#define NO_DM_ADM          (1<<4)  /* send DM on N2 exp. in ADM state */
#define IGN_DM_ERROR       (1<<5)  /* ignore DM frames in error state */
    uint16_t llconform;            /* OR of flags above */
    uint16_t sabm_in_x32;          /* process SABM during X.32 setup */
} lapbtune_t;\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B lapbtune
structure include:
.TP \w'\ \fIsabm_in_x32\fR\(em'u
.I N2
Maximum PDU retransmissions.
.PD 0
.TP
.I T1
Acknowledgement timeout.
.TP
.I Tpf
P-bit timeout.
.TP
.I Trej
Reject timeout.
.TP
.I Tbusy
Busy timeout.
.TP
.I Tidle
Idle timeout.
.TP
.I ack_delay
Acknowledgement delay.
.TP
.I notack_max
Maximum number of unacked PDUs.
.TP
.I tx_window
The number of unacknowledged I PDUs which may be sent.
.TP
.I tx_probe
The position of probe in window.
.TP
.I max_I_len
The maximum size of a LAPB I-frame.
.TP
.I ll_conform
An inclusive-OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.PD
.RS
.TP \w'\ \fBFRMR_INVRSP_ERROR\fR\(em'u
.B IGN_UA_ERROR
Ignore UA frames during error.
.PD 0
.TP
.B FRMR_FRMR_ERROR
Retransmit FRMR during error.
.TP
.B FRMR_INVRSP_ERROR
Transmit FRMR on invalid response during error.
.TP
.B SFRAME_PBIT
Reject S-frame without P-bit set.
.TP
.B NO_DM_ADM
Do not set DM in ADM state on N2 expiry.
.TP
.B IGN_DM_ERROR
Ignore DM in error state.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I sabm_in_x32
Accept SABM during X.32 setup.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B labptune
structure is used to provide LAPB configuration and tuning parameters for use
with the
.BR L_GETTUNE "(7) and " L_SETTUNE (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.BR lli (7).
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.PP
The
.B lapbtune
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR lltune (8)
utility,
but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.PP
There are separate structures for MLP,
.BR mlptune (5),
and
LLC2,
.BR llc2tune (5).
.\"
.PP
The members of the
.B lapbtune
structure are described as follows:
.TP \w'\ \fIsabm_in_x32\fR\(em'u
.I N2
The maximum number of times that a protocol data unit (PDU) is sent following
the expiry of the acknowledgement timer, the P-bit timer, or the reject
timer.  It also limits the number of times an RR with the P-bit set is sent
when remote busy is true and the busy timer expires.
.TP
.I T1
The time during which the LAPB expects to receive an acknowledgement to an
outstanding I-PDU or an expected response to a sent UI-PDU.  The value is in
units of 0.1 seconds.
.TP
.I Tpf
The time during which the LAPB expects to receive a PDU with the F-bit set to
1 in response to a command with the P-bit set to 1.  The value should be less
than the acknowledgement timer.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.TP
.I Trej
The time during which the LAPB expects to receive a reply to a sent REJ PDU.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.TP
.I Tbusy
The time during which the LAPB waits for an indication of the clearance of
busy condition at the other LAPB.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.TP
.I Tidle
The time during which the LAPB expects to receive a PDU from the other LAPB.
If it expires then the P/F cycle is initiated which may result in link
disconnection.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.TP
.I ack_delay
The maximum delay in 0.1 second units before transmitting a delayed RR.  This
must be considerably less than the acknowledgement timer value.
.TP
.I notack_max
The maximum number of unacknowledged receive I PDUs before the RR
acknowledging them all must be sent.
.TP
.I tx_window
The number of unacknowledged I PDUs which may be sent.
.TP
.I tx_probe
The potion before the window is closed at which an I PDU is sent with the
P-bit set to solicit an acknowledgement from the receiver.
.TP
.I max_I_len
The maximum size of a LAPB I-frame.  LAPB requires all incoming I-frames
above a certain size to be rejected by a FRMR.  This parameter specifies the
maximum size.  It is constructed as (maximum X.25 data size + X.25 protocol
length + LAPB protocol length).
.TP
.I ll_conform
An inclusive-OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\ \fBFRMR_INVRSP_ERROR\fR\(em'u
.B IGN_UA_ERROR
Defines whether or nor to ignore any UA frames received, when the connection
is in the ERROR state.  This bit is included in the mask to ignore such
frames.
.TP
.B FRMR_FRMR_ERROR
Defines whether or not to re-transmit a frame reject if an invalid frame
response is received, when the connection is in the ERROR state.  This bit is
included in the mask to retransmit such frames.
.TP
.B FRMR_INVRSP_ERROR
Defines whether or not to transmit a frame reject if an invalid frame
response is received, when the connection is in the ERROR state.  This bit is
included in the mask to transmit such frames.
.TP
.B SFRAME_PBIT
Defines whether or not to send a frame reject if an S-frame is receives
without the P-bit set.  This bit is included in the mask to reject such
frames.
.TP
.B NO_DM_ADM
Defines whether or not to send a DM on entry to ADM state after an N2 count
expiry.  This bit is included in the mask to send such DM frames
.TP
.B IGN_DM_ERROR
Defines whether or not to ignore DM frames received, when the connection is
in the ERROR state.  This bit is included in the mask to ignore such frames.
.RE
.TP
.I sabm_in_x32
Defines the action taken when a SABM is received in D.32 setup.  The Value is
one (1) to process such SABM-frames and zero (0) otherwise.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_control.h
Defines the
.B lapbtune
structure.
.TP
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory containing
.BR lapbtemplate (5)
files following the form of the
.BR lapbtune
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lapbtemplate (5),
.BR mlptune (5),
.BR llc2tune (5),
.BR lltune (8),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR L_SETTUNE (7),
.BR L_GETTUNE (7),
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B lapbtune
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B lapbtune
structure is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Most implementations doe not define the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP flag nor the
\fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP field.
.IP \(em
Some implementations, such as
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
document the \fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP member,  but not the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP
flag.
.IP \(em
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
and
.IR "IRIS X.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
do not document either the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP flag nor the
\fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP member.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR lapb (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B lapbtune
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
