'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ll_snioc.5.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ll_snioc.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:40  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.TH LL_SNIOC 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ll_snioc
\- LAPB or LLC2 subnetwork ID input-output control structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/snet/ll_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct ll_snioc {
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_class;
    uint8_t lli_spare[2];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    uint32_t lli_index;
    uint32_t lli_slp_snid;
    uint32_t lli_slp_pri;
};

#define LC_LLC1          15
#define LC_LLC2          16
#define LC_LAPBDTE       17
#define LC_LAPBXDTE      18
#define LC_LAPBDCE       19
#define LC_LAPBXDCE      20
#define LC_LAPDTE        21
#define LC_LAPDCE        22
#define LC_HDLC          27
#define LC_HDLCX         28

#ifdef _SUN_SOURCE
#define LI_SPPA         LI_SNID
#define lli_ppa         lli_snid
#endif
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B ll_snioc
structure include:
.TP \w'\ lli_slp_snid\(em'u
.I lli_type
The type of LLI structure: always \fB\)LI_SNID\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I lli_class
The class of the link.
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.
.TP
.I lli_snid
The subnetwork (link) identifier.
.TP
.I lli_index
The multiplexing driver link index.
.TP
.I lli_slp_snid
The SLP subnetwork identifier for MLP.
.TP
.I lli_slp_pri
The SLP priority for MLP.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ll_snioc
structure is used to provide subnetwork (link) identifier and related
information for use with the
.BR L_GETSNID "(7) and " L_SETSNID (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7).
.PP
The
.B ll_snioc
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR linkadd "(8) and " linklist (8)
utilities,
but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.PP
There is one shared structure that is used for MLP, LAP/LAPB and LLC1/LLC2.
.PP
The members of the
.B ll_snioc
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I lli_type
Specifies the type of the structure.  For the
.B ll_snioc
structure, this member is always set to
.BR LI_SNID .
.TP
.I lli_class
Specifies or indicates the class of the link or subnetwork connection.  This
member can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B LC_LLC1
Logical Link Control Type 1 (LLC1 \(em connectionless).
.TP
.B LC_LLC2
Logical Link Control Type 2 (LLC2 \(em connection oriented).
.TP
.B LC_LAPBDTE
Link Access Protocol Balanced (LAPB) Data Terminal Equipment (DTE).
.TP
.B LC_LAPBXDTE
Link Access Protocol Balanced (LAPB) Data Terminal Equipment (DTE), extended.
.TP
.B LC_LAPBDCE
Link Access Protocol Balanced (LAPB) Data Control Equipment (DCE).
.TP
.B LC_LAPBXDCE
Link Access Protocol Balanced (LAPB) Data Control Equipment (DCE), extended.
.TP
.B LC_LAPDTE
Link Access Protocol (LAP) Data Terminal Equipment (DTE).
.TP
.B LC_LAPDCE
Link Access Protocol (LAP) Data Control Equipment (DCE).
.TP
.B LC_HDLC
High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC).
.TP
.B LC_HDLCX
High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC), extended.
.RE
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.  These bytes are coded zero (0) by the initiator
and ignored by the responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
The subnetwork (link) ID.
.TP
.I lli_index
The index of the link under a multiplexing driver.  This is the value that
was returned by the
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control when the link was linked under a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.I lli_slp_snid
When the link is an MLP link, this is the subnetwork (link) identifier of the
SLP link being referenced.
.TP
.I lli_slp_pri
When the link is an MLP link, this is the priority of the SLP link within the
MLP multi-link.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_proto.h
Defines the link classes.
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_control.h
Defines the
.B ll_snioc
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR linkadd (8),
.BR linkdel (8),
.BR linklist (8),
.BR L_SETSNID (7),
.BR L_GETSNID (7),
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B ll_snioc
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B ll_snioc
structure is compatible with
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is not directly compatible with
.IR "Solstice 9.2" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
in that this data structure is described as:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct ll_snioc {
    uint8_t lli_type;      /* Table type = LI_SPPA */
    uint8_t lli_class;     /* DTE/DCE/extended */
    uint16_t lli_slp_pri;  /* SLP priority */
    uint32_t lli_ppa;      /* PPA/Subnetwork ID character */
    uint32_t lli_index;    /* Link index */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I lli_type
The table type.  This should always be \fB\)LI_SPPA\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I lli_class
This indicates the type of link.  \fB\)LC_LLC2\fP must be used for LLC2;
\fB\)LC_LAPBDTE\fP or \fB\)LC_LAPBDCE\fP must be used for LAPB.  The file
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_proto.h
contains a complete list of values.
.TP
.I lli_slp_pri
This determines the priority of SLP when MLP is used.
.TP
.I lli_ppa
The PPA identifier.
.TP
.I lli_index
The link index.  This must be set with the
.I muxid
value returned by the
.BR I_LINK (7)
input-output control when LAPB is placed over a serial driver.
.PD
.PP
Of course, the member \fI\)lli_slp_snid\fP is not provided and the member
\fI\)lli_snid\fP is always called \fI\)lli_ppa\fP.  This does not directly
cause source compatibility issues, just binary compatibility issues.
.RE
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR lapb (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B ll_snioc
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.[
spiderx25
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
