'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/llc2_stioc.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.TH LLC2_STIOC 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B llc2_stioc
\- LLC2 statistics input-output control structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/snet/ll_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/ll_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct llc2_stioc {
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    llc2stats_t lli_stats;
};

typedef struct llc2_stats {
    uint32_t llc2monarray[llc2statmax];
} llc2stats_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B llc2_stioc
structure include:
.TP \w'\ llc2monarray\(em'u
.I lli_type
The type of LLI structure: always \fB\)LI_STATS\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I state
The state of the link.
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by the initiator and ignored by the
responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier.
.TP
.I lli_stats
Contains the LLC2 statistics formatted as a
.B llc2_stats
structure.
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B llc2_stats
structure include:
.TP \w'\ llc2monarray\(em'u
.I llc2monarray
An array of 49 32-bit unsigned integer values containing the LLC2 statistics.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B llc2_stioc
structure is used to provide LLC2 per-link statistics and related information
for use with the
.BR L_GETSTATS "(7) and " L_ZEROSTATS (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7).
.PP
The
.B llc2_stioc
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR lltune (8)
utility, but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.PP
This structure is used for LLC2, and other structures are used for LAPB,
.BR lapb_stioc (5),
and MLP,
.BR mlp_stioc (5).
.PP
The members of the
.B llc2_stioc
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I lli_type
Specifies the type of structure.  For the
.B llc2_stioc
structure, this member is always set to
.BR LI_STATS .
.TP
.I state
Provides the state of the subnetwork (link).
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by the initiator and ignore by the
responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier of the link for which to obtain
statistics.
.TP
.I lli_stats
Provides an
.B lli_stats
structure that contains a 49 element 32-bit unsigned integer array containing
the statistics.
.PP
The members of the
.B llc2_stats
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I llc2monarray
An array of 49 32-bit unsigned integer values containing the LLC2 statistics.
The indexes of the elements of the array are as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\ 00\(em\)SABME_rx_cmd\(em'u
.B 0\(em\)tx_ign
Frames ignored for transmission.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 1\(em\)rx_badlen
Frames received with bad length.
.TP
.B 2\(em\)rx_unknown
Unknown frame types received.
.TP
.B 3\(em\)t1_exp
T1 expiries.
.TP
.B 4\(em\)t4_exp
T4 expiries.
.TP
.B 5\(em\)t4_n2_exp
T4/N2 expiries.
.TP
.B 6\(em\)RR_rx_cmd
RR command frames received.
.TP
.B 7\(em\)RR_rx_rsp
RR response frames received.
.TP
.B 8\(em\)RR_tx_cmd
RR command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 9\(em\)RR_tx_rsp
RR response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 10\(em\)RR_tx_cmd_p
RR command frames transmitted with P-bit set.
.TP
.B 11\(em\)RNR_rx_cmd
RNR command frames received.
.TP
.B 12\(em\)RNR_rx_rsp
RNR response frames received.
.TP
.B 13\(em\)RNR_tx_cmd
RNR command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 14\(em\)RNR_tx_rsp
RNR response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 15\(em\)RNR_tx_cmd_p
RNR command frames transmitted with P-bit set.
.TP
.B 16\(em\)REJ_rx_cmd
REJ command frames received.
.TP
.B 17\(em\)REJ_rx_rsp
REJ response frames received.
.TP
.B 18\(em\)REJ_tx_cmd
REJ command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 19\(em\)REJ_tx_rsp
REJ response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 20\(em\)REJ_tx_cmd_p
REJ command frames transmitted with P-bit set.
.TP
.B 21\(em\)SABME_rx_cmd
SABME command frames received.
.TP
.B 22\(em\)SABME_tx_cmd
SABME command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 23\(em\)DISC_rx_cmd
DISC command frames received.
.TP
.B 24\(em\)DISC_tx_cmd
DISC command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 25\(em\)UA_rx_rsp
UA response frames received.
.TP
.B 26\(em\)UA_tx_rsp
UA response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 27\(em\)DM_rx_rsp
DM response frames received.
.TP
.B 28\(em\)DM_tx_rsp
DM response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 29\(em\)I_rx_cmd
I command frames received.
.TP
.B 30\(em\)I_tx_cmd
I command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 31\(em\)FRMR_rx_rsp
FRMR response frames received.
.TP
.B 32\(em\)FRMR_tx_rsp
FRMR response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 33\(em\)tx_rtr
Retransmissions.
.TP
.B 34\(em\)rx_bad
Bad frames received.
.TP
.B 35\(em\)rx_dud
Invalid frames received.
.TP
.B 36\(em\)rx_ign
Ignored frames received.
.TP
.B 37\(em\)XID_rx_cmd
XID command frames received.
.TP
.B 38\(em\)XID_rx_rsp
XID response frames received.
.TP
.B 39\(em\)XID_tx_cmd
XID command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 40\(em\)XID_tx_rsp
XID response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 41\(em\)TEST_rx_cmd
TEST command frames received.
.TP
.B 42\(em\)TEST_rx_rsp
TEST response frames received.
.TP
.B 43\(em\)TEST_tx_cmd
TEST command frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 44\(em\)TEST_tx_rsp
TEST response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 45\(em\)I_rx_rsp
I response frames received.
.TP
.B 46\(em\)I_tx_rsp
I response frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 47\(em\)UI_rx_cmd
UI command frames received.
.TP
.B 48\(em\)UI_tx_cmd
UI command frames transmitted.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_proto.h
Defines the link classes.
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/ll_control.h
Defines the
.B llc2_stioc
and
.B llc2_stats
structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lltune (8),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR L_GETSTATS (7),
.BR L_ZEROSTATS (7),
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B llc2_stioc
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B llc2_stioc
structure is compatible with
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
There are fine differences between the implementations in the precise fields
and flags used in the
.B llc2_stats
structure.
.IP \(em
Source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR llc2 (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B llc2_stioc
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.[
spiderx25
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
