'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/mfetemplate.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH MFETEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B mfetemplate
\- Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
describes the file format for input to the
.BR mfevc (8)
command for Frame Relay subnetworks and virtual circuits.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the MFE configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the
.B mfe_config
structure, that is carried in a
.BR MFE_ADD ", " MFE_GET " or " MFE_REMOVE
input-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created MFE subnetwork and circuit, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in RFC 2427,
.[
rfc2427
.]
X.36 (Annex D),
.[
x36
.]
FRF 3.2
.[
frf3_2
.]
and FRF 12.
.[
frf12
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.PP
The MFE subnetwork circuit template consists of 4 or more lines containing
the following configuration information:
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B ADDRLEN
The length in octets of the DLCI (unless provided by the underlying device
driver).  The address length is used to calculate padding requirements (e.g.
whether to pad NLPID with a leading 0x00 octet).
.IP 2.
.B MAXSDU
The maximum DLSDU size (unless provided by the underlying device driver and
the value of the underlying driver is less than this ammount).
This value is used to decide when to fragment outgoing PDUs and may be less
than or equal to the maximum DLSDU size of the underlying driver.
FRF.12 Section 7:
.[
frf12
.]
\*(lqThis IA does not recommend any specific fragment size.  The fragment size is
configured in the transmitter, and the two peer transmitters need not use the
same fragment size.\*(rq  Some considerations should be given for specific size
when ATM interworking is used.
The default is the maximum DLSDU size for the underlying driver.
.IP 3.
.B MAXPDU
The maximum size of a PDU reassembled from fragments.  If a PDU is greater
than this size, the PDU will be discarded per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
Section 6.2: \*(lqIn the event of an error (e.g., one or more fragments lost
due ... reassembly buffer overflow), fragments which cannot be reconstructed
back into the original frame must be discarded by the receiver.\*(rq
The default is 32768.
.IP 4.
.B FRGSEQ
is the initial sequence number to use for fragmentation per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
Section 6.1:
\*(lqThe first fragment sent on a VC (following the VC becoming active) may have
the sequence number set to any value (including zero), and the sequence number
must subsequently be incremented by one for each fragment sent.\*(rq
Zero (0) specifies that a random number is to be chose when the VC is
activated or attached.  Zero (0) is the default for new VCs.
.PP
The following lines are enhancements:
.IP 5. \w'00.\(em'u
.B FRAGTYPE
specifies the fragementation type per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
as follows:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
n1c1l.
0:\-:End-to-end Fragmetation
1:\-:UNI/NNI Fragmentation
2:\-:NNI/NNI Fragmentation
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR mfe (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR mfe (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
