'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/mlp_stioc.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.TH MLP_STIOC 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mlp_stioc
\- MLP statistics input-output control structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/snet/mlp_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/mlp_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct mlp_stioc {
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t state;
    uint16_t lli_spare;
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    mlpstats_t lli_stats;
};

typedef struct mlp_stats {
    uint32_t mlpmonarray[MLPSTATMAX];
} mlpstats_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_stioc
structure include:
.TP \w'\ mlpmonarray\(em'u
.I lli_type
The type of LLI structure: always \fB\)LI_STATS\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I state
The state of the link.
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by the initiator and ignored by the
responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier.
.TP
.I lli_stats
Contains the MLP statistics formatted as a
.B mlp_stats
structure.
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_stats
structure include:
.TP \w'\ mlpmonarray\(em'u
.I mlpmonarray
An array of 12 32-bit unsigned integer values containing the MLP statistics.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mlp_stioc
strucuture is used to provide MLP per-link statistics and related information
for use with the
.BR L_GETSTATS "(7) and " L_ZEROSTATS (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7).
.PP
The
.B mlp_stioc
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily
by the
.BR mlptune (8)
utility, but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.PP
This structure is used for MLP, and other structures are used for LAPB,
.BR lapb_stioc (5),
and LLC2,
.BR llc2_stioc (5).
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_stioc
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I lli_type
Specifies the type of structure.  For the
.B mlp_stioc
structure, this member is always set to
.BR LI_STATS .
.TP
.I state
Provides the state of the subnetwork (link).
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by the initiator and ignored by the
responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier of the link for which to obtain
statistics.
.TP
.I lli_stats
Provides an
.B mlp_stats
structure that contains a 12 element 32-bit unsigned integer array containing
the statistics.
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_stats
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I mlpmonarray
An array of 12 32-bit unsigned integer values containing the MLP statistics.
The indexes of the elements of the array are as follows:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\ 00\(em\)MLP_num_slps\(em'u
.B 0\(em\)MLP_frames_tx
Frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 1\(em\)MLP_frames_rx
Frames received.
.TP
.B 2\(em\)MLP_reset_tx
Reset frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 3\(em\)MLP_reset_rx
Reset frames received.
.TP
.B 4\(em\)MLP_confs_tx
Reset confirmation frames transmitted.
.TP
.B 5\(em\)MLP_confs_rx
Reset confirmation frames received.
.TP
.B 6\(em\)MLP_slps
Number of single-link-protocol components.
.TP
.B 7\(em\)MLP_num_slps
Maximum number of single-link-protocol components.
.TP
.B 8\(em\)MLP_mt1_exp
Number of MT1 expiries.
.TP
.B 9\(em\)MLP_mt2_exp
Number of MT2 expiries.
.TP
.B 10\(em\)MLP_mt3_exp
Number of MT3 expiries.
.TP
.B 11\(em\)MLP_mn1_exp
Number of MN1 expiries.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/mlp_proto.h
Defines the link classes.
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/mlp_control.h
Defines the
.B mlp_stioc
and
.B mlp_stats
structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mlptune (8),
.BR mlp (4),
.BR M_GETSTATS (7),
.BR M_ZEROSTATS (7),
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B mlp_stioc
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mlp_stioc
structure is compatible with
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
There are fine differences between the implementations in the precise fields
and flags used in the
.B mlp_stats
structure.
.IP \(em
Source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR lapb (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B mlp_stioc
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.[
spiderx25
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
