'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mlp_tnioc.5.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mlp_tnioc.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:40  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.TH MLP_TNIOC 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mlp_tnioc
\- MLP tunable parameter input-output control structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Logical Link Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/snet/mlp_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/mlp_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct mlp_tnioc {
    uint8_t lli_type;      /* always LI_MLPTUNE */
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];  /* for alignment only */
    uint8_t lli_snid;      /* subnetwork (link) ID */
    mlptune_t mlp_tune;    /* MLP tuning parameters */
};

typedef struct mlptune {
    uint16_t mw;           /* MLP window */
    uint16_t mx;           /* MLP window in guard region */
    uint16_t mt1;          /* lost frame timer */
    uint16_t mt2;          /* group busy timer */
    uint16_t mt3;          /* MLP reset confirmation timer */
    uint16_t mn1;          /* */
} mlptune_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_tnioc
structure include
.TP \w'\ lli_spare\(em'u
.I lli_type
The type of LLI structure: always \fB\)LI_MLPTUNE\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Subnetwork (link) identifier.
.TP
.I mlp_tune
MLP tunable parameter structure.
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B mlptune
structure include:
.TP \w'\ lli_spare\(em'u
.I mw
MLP window.
.PD 0
.TP
.I mx
MLP window in guard region.
.TP
.I mt1
Lost frame timer.
.TP
.I mt2
Group busy timer.
.TP
.I mt3
MLP reset confirmation timer.
.TP
.I mn1
MLP N1 counter.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mlp_tnioc
structure is used to provide MLP tunable parameters and related information
for use with the
.BR M_GETTUNE "(7) and " M_SETTUNE (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7).
.PP
The
.B mlp_tnioc
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR mlptune (8)
utility, but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.PP
This structure is used for MLP, and other structures are used for LAPB,
.BR lapb_tnioc (5),
and LLC2,
.BR llc2_tnioc (5).
.PP
The members of the
.B mlp_tnioc
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I lli_type
Specifies the type of the structure.  For the
.B mlp_tnioc
structure, this member is always set to
.BR LI_MLPTUNE .
.TP
.I lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by the initiator and ignored by the
responder.
.TP
.I lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier of the link (multi-link) to tune.
.TP
.I mlp_tune
Specifies the tunable MLP parameters.
.PP
The members of the
.B mlptune
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I mw
MLP window.
.TP
.I mx
MLP window inside the guard region.
.TP
.I mt1
MLP T1, lost frame timer.
.TP
.I mt2
MLP T2, group busy timer.
.TP
.I mt3
MLP T3, reset confirmation timer.
.TP
.I mn1
MLP N1, number of retries.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/mlp_proto.h
Defines the link classes.
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/mlp_control.h
Defines the
.B mlp_tnioc
and
.B mlptune
structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mlptune (8),
.BR M_SETTUNE (7),
.BR M_GETTUNE (7),
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B mlp_tnioc
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mlp_tnioc
structure is compatible with
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
There are fine differences between the implementations in the precise fields
and flags used in the
.BR mlptune (5)
structure.
.IP \(em
Source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR lapb (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR lli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B mlp_tnioc
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.[
spiderx25
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
