'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDTCONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B sdtconf
\- Signalling Data Terminal configuration file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
none
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manpage is under construction.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
.PP
Entries consist of a number of fields spearated by newlines.  Fields are separated by whitespace and
occur in the order in which they are described below.  Whitespace can be embedded as blanks or tabs.
Backslashes may be embedded as backslashes.  Lines that begin with an octothorpe,
.RI ` # ',
in column 1 are treated as comment lines.  Each valid line in the file describes either a signalling
data terminal profile or a signalling data terminal, depending upon the initial field value.
.PP
As an option for specifying field values out of order, or skipping field values, the name of the
field can be prefixed to the field entry with a equal sign,
.RB ` = '.
For example, the value for field
.B Te
can be written as:
.RB \(lq Te=\fIvalue\fP \(rq.
.PP
Each entry contains the following fields:
.PP
.B profile
.RI < name >
.RI < t8 >
.RI < Tin >
.RI < Tie >
.RI < T >
.RI < D >
.RI < Te >
.RI < De >
.RI < Ue >
.RI < N >
.RI < m >
.RI < b >
.RI < f >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B profile
is a selector that indicates that this is a signalling data terminal profile entry.
.TP
.I name
is an identifier string used to identify this profile.
.TP
.I t8
is the EIM T8 timer duration (in milliseconds)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the EIM (Errored Interval Monitor).
.TP
.I Tin
is the AERM normal proving threshold (in number of SUs)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the AERM (Alignment Error Rate Monitor).
.TP
.I Tie
is the AERM emergency proving threshold (in number of SUs)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the AERM (Alignment Error Rate Monitor).
.TP
.I T
is the SUERM error threshold (in number of SUs)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the SUERM (Signal Unit Error Rate Monitor).
.TP
.I D
is the SUERM error rate parameter (in number of SUs)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the SUERM (Signal Unit Error Rate Monitor).
.TP
.I Te
is the EIM error threshold (in intervals)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the EIM (Errored Interval Monitor).
.TP
.I De
is the EIM correct decrement (in intervals)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the EIM (Errored Interval Monitor).
.TP
.I Ue
is the EIM error increment (in intervals)
or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value or that the value is not applicable.
This value is only applicable to signalling links that utilize the EIM (Errored Interval Monitor).
.TP
.I N
is the number of octets per SU in octet-counting mode or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value.
The default value is normally
.B 16
octets.  Octet counting mode is not applicable to all signalling terminals.
.TP
.I m
is the maximum SIF size or a single dash (or missing field) indicating the default value.  The default value is
dependent upon the interface rate and protocol options, but is normally
.B 272
octets.
.TP
.I b
is the transmit block size.
.TP
.I f
if the number of flags to be transmitted between frames.  It can have one of the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B one
one flag is transmitted between frames.
.PD 0
.TP
.B shared
a shared flag is transmitted between frames.
.TP
.B two
two flags are transmitted between frames.
.TP
.B three
three flags are transmitted between frames.
.TP
.I n
.I n
flags are transmitted between frames.
.TP
.B -
the default value is to be used, or the value is not applicable.
.PD
.PP
The number of flags is only applicable to signalling links that use SS7-HDLC (DAED) for framing
SDUs.  For example, ATM links and M2PA links do not frame SDUs with flags.
.RE
.PP
.B sdt
.RI < clei >
.RI < global-ppa >
.RI < sdti >
.RI < profile >
.RI < device-type >
.I ...
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sdt
is a selector that indicates that this is a signalling data terminal entry.
.TP
.I clei
is a Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) for the signalling data terminal.  This value can be
used to open the signalling data terminal using the
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver.
.TP
.I global-ppa
is a global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) for the signalling data termina.  This valud can be used
to open the signalling data terminal using the
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver.
.TP
.I sdti
is a Signalling Data Terminal Identifier (SDTI) for the signalling data termina.  This is interpreted as a
16-bit integer number used to identify the signalling data terminal to remote peers.
.TP
.I profile
is a profile name defined previously a
.B profile
entry with a
.I name
field corresponding to the value of this field.  It describes the configuration data for the
signalling data terminal.
.TP
.I device-type
is a device type.  This device type describes a shared object that can be opened by the
configuration program to interpret the remaining fields in the entry and perform configuration
actions with regard to the signalling data terminal.
.TP
.I ...
are additional configuration fields specific to the device type specified in the
.I device-type
field.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/sdtconf
The signalling data terminal configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Not done yet.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
