'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: slconf.5.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: slconf.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SLCONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B slconf
\- Signalling Link Configuration
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/slconf
.PP
.B #include <sys/slconf.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The signaling link configuration database file,
.BR /etc/slconf ,
is a system file that contains configuration information for signalling links and, specifically, the
Signalling Link configuration daemon,
.BR slconfd (8).
.PP
Each entry in the signalling link configuration database file can be represented by a
.B slconfig
structure, formatted as follows:
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
Entries consist of a number of fields separated by newlines.  Fields are separated by whitespace and
occur in the order in which they are described below.  Whitespace can be embedded as blanks or
tabs.  Backslashes may be embedded as backslashes.  Lines that begin with an octothorpe,
.RI ` # ',
in column 1 are treated as comments.  Each valid line in the file describes an available signalling
link its associated configuration information.  Each entry contains the following fields:
.PP
\fBsl\fP <\fIclei\fP> <\fIglobal-ppa\fP> <\fIdevice-type\fP> \fI...\fP
.PP
Where,
.TP
.I clei
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) for the signalling link.  This CLEI can be used by
streams opening the
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver to attach to this signalling link.
.TP
.I global-ppa
A global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) for the signalling link.  This PPA can be used by
streams opening the
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver to attach to this signalling link.
.TP
.I device-type
The device type defines the type of device that a is providing the signalling link.  The device type
can, for example, be one of:
.BR x400p ", " m2ua " or " m2pa .
For additional information on X400P-SS7 configuration, see
.BR x400pconf (8).
For additional information on M2PA configuration, see
.BR m2paconfig (8).
For additional information on M2UA configuration, see
.BR m2uaconfig (8).
.TP
.I ...
The remaining fileds are interpreted depending on the device type.  The signalling link
configuration daemon,
.BR slconfd (8),
that reads this file will attempt to open the shared object object derived from the name of the
device type.  The
.BR slconfd (8)
program will attempt to open the shared object named
\(lq\fB/usr/lib/ss7/\fIdevice-type\fB.so\fR\(rq,
where
.I device-type
is the name of the device type from the
.I device-type
field.
For example, for the
.B x400p
device type, the
.BR slconfd (8)
program will attempt to open
.RB \(lq /usr/lib/ss7/x400p.so \(rq.
.IP ""
The shared object opened by
.BR slconfd (8)
provides access procedures for the daemon to open, attach and configure the signalling link.  The
access procedures are passed the remainder of the configuration file entry and is parsed according
to the specific device type.
.PP
\fBss7profile\fR <\fIname\fR> <\fIvariant\fR> <\fIoptions\fR>
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B ss7profile
is an entry selector that indicates that this is an SS7 profile entry.  An SS7 profile is a
collection of protocol variant and option information for SS7 entities that is commont to a number
of SS7 entities.
.TP
.I name
is an identifier for the SS7 profile.
.TP
.I variant
specifies a protocol variant.  A protocol variant identifies a standard to which the SS7 entity must
comply.
.TP
.I options
specifies protocol options.  Protocol options are optional behaviours within a standard.  This is a
comma separated list of the options which apply to the protocol variant.
.PP
\fBsdlprofile\fR <\fIname\fR> \fI...\fR
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sdlprofile
is an entry selector that indicates that this is a signalling data link profile entry.
.TP
.I name
is an identifier for the signalling data link profile.
.TP
.I iftype
specifies the interface type.  The interface type can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B -
the interface type is unspecified.  The default interface type for the signalling data link will be
used.
.PD 0
.TP
.B v35
specifies a V.35 interface.
.TP
.B ds0
specifies a DS0 interface.
.TP
.B ds0a
specifies a DS0A interface.
.TP
.B e1
specifies an (full span) E1 interface.
.TP
.B t1
specifies a (full span) T1 interface.
.TP
.B j1
specifies a (full span) J1 interface.
.TP
.B atm
specifies an ATM (SSCOP) interface.
.TP
.B packet
specifies a packet interface.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifrate
specifies the interface rate.  The interface rate can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B -
the interface rate is unspecified.  The default interface rate for the signalling data link will be
used.
.PD 0
.TP
.B ds0a
specifies a DS0A interface rate (56000 bps).
.TP
.B ds0
specifies a DS0 interface rate (64000 bps).
.TP
.B t1
specifies a T1 interface rate (1544000 bps).
.TP
.B j1
specifies a J1 interface rate (1544000 bps).
.TP
.B e1
specifies an E1 interface rate (2048000 bps).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifgtype
specifies the interface group type.  The interface group type can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifgrate
specifies the interface group rate.  The interface group rate can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifmode
specifies the interface mode.  The interface mode can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifgmode
specifies the interface group mode.  The interface group mode can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifgcrc
specifies the interface group CRC.  The interface group CRC can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifclock
specifies the interface clock.  The interface clock can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifcoding
specifies the interface coding.  The interface coding can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifframing
specifies the interface framing.  The interface framing can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifblksize
specifies the interface block size.  The interface block size can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifrxlevel
specifies the interface receiver level.  The interface receiver level can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I iftxlevel
specifies the interface transmitter level.  The interface transmitter level can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.TP
.I ifsyncsrc
specifies the interface synchronization sources.  The interface synchronization sources is a comma
separated list, with no intervening whitespace, specifying the synchronization sources in order of
priority for the interface.  Each interface synchronization source can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.RE
.PP
\fBsdtprofile\fR <\fIname\fR> \fI...\fR
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sdtprofile
is an entry selector that indicates that this is a signalling data terminal profile entry.
.TP
.I name
is an identifier for the signalling data terminal profile.
.PP
\fBslprofile\fR <\fIname\fR> \fI...\fR
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B slprofile
is an entry selector that indicates that this is a signalling link profile entry.  A signalling
link profile is a collection of configuration information for signalling links that are common to a
number of signalling links.
.TP
.I name
is an identifier for the signalling link profile.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/slconf
The signalling link configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Not done yet.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
