'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/strsetup.conf.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRSETUP.CONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strsetup.conf
\- configuration file for \fISTREAMS\fR drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/strsetup.conf
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B /etc/strsetup.conf
file is the configuration file for
.I STREAMS
drivers. The
.B strsetup.conf
file specifies one or more character special files (or nodes) to be created
when a
.I STREAMS
driver is configured into the kernel.  If the driver is not configured, no
character special files are created for it.  If an old version of the file
exists, the
.BR strsetup (8)
command removes it before the new one is created.
.\"
.\"
.SS "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
Each entry in the
.B strsetup.conf
file specifies a driver name, device special file name, file mode and minor
number.  See the \*(lq\fIEXAMPLES\fP\*(rq section for a sample
.B strsetup.conf
file.
.PP
Each line in the file is of the form:
.HP
.RB < driver_name "> <" filename "> <" file_mode "> <" minor_number >
.PP
The fields have the following meanings:
.TP
.RB < driver_name >
Specifies the name of the driver as reported by the
.BR strsetup (8)
command.  This field is used to match the names read by the
.BR strsetup (8)
command from the kernel and must match exactly (the match is case sensitive).
.TP
.RB < filename >
Specifies the full path name of the character special file or files to be
created when
.RI < driver_name >
is configured into the kernel.
The filename can contain one conversion specifier in the style of
.BR printf (3).
This conversion is used to include a minor device number in the filename.  The
permitted conversions are the following:
.RS
.IP \fB%d\fR
Prints the minor number as a signed decimal.
.IP \fB%x\fR
Prints the minor number as hexadecimal with lower case letters.
.IP \fB%X\fR
Prints the minor number as hexadecimal with upper case letters.
.IP \fB%o\fR
Prints the minor number as octal.
.IP \fB%u\fR
Prints the minor number as an unsigned decimal.
.IP \fB%i\fR
Prints the minor number as a signed decimal.
.PP
Note that you must use a double percent sign (%%) to include a percent sign in
the filename.  Optionally, each of these conversions can include a
specification for some number of leading 0's.  This is done by following %
with a 0 and one or more digits specifying the total number of digits to be
printed.  The 0 must appear after the %.  See
.BR printf (3)
for more information.  Any directories in the path of the filename that do not
exist are created.
.RE
.TP
.RB < file_mode >
Specifies the file mode assigned to the file when it is created.  The
.I file_mode
field must be in octal.
.TP
.RB < minor_number >
Specifies the minor device number field.  The
.B strsetup
command reads the major device numbers from the kernel.  This field indicates
to the
.B strsetup
command how to assign minor device numbers.  The
.I minor_number
field can contain one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B clone
Indicates that the device should be created as a clone device.  In this case
the major number becomes that of the special
.BR clone (4)
pseudo-device driver and the minor device number becomes the device's major
number.  Note that the word \(lqclone\(rq must be lower case.
.TP
.B N
Creates a single device with the minor device number
.IR N .
Note that
.I N
is a decimal number.
.TP
.B M-N
Creates
.IR M - N
nodes with the devices' major numbers and minor numbers between
.IR M " and " N .
Note that
.IR M " and " N
are decimal numbers.  When a range of minor numbers is specified, a filename
conversion specifier can be used to make certain that each node created is
unique.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example
.B strsetup
configuration file for use with the command
.BI "strsetup -f " filename
is as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2
#
# strsetup - sample configuration file
#

# driver name	filename		file mode	minor number

ptm		/dev/ptmx		0666		clone
log		/dev/streams/log	0666		clone
nuls		/dev/streams/nuls	0666		clone
echo		/dev/streams/echo	0666		clone
sad		/dev/sad/admin		0666		clone
pts		/dev/pts/%d		0666		0-127
\s+2\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/strsetup.conf
contains the
.B strsetup
configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR printf (3),
.BR strsetup (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strsetup (8)
is an
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function and the
.B strsetup.conf
file format is also
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides
.BR strsetup (8)
and the
.B strsetup.conf
file format for compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.BR printf (3)
conventions might not match those of
.BR Linux .
See
.BR printf (3)
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
documentation
.[
osfdoc
.]
for more information.

.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strsetup (8)
and the
.B strsetup.conf
file format first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
