'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: wan_tnioc.5.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:41 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:41 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: wan_tnioc.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:41  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH WAN_TNIOC 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B wan_tnioc
\- WAN tuning input-output control structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Wide Area Network (WAN)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <sys/snet/wan_control.h>

struct wan_tnioc {
    uint8_t w_type;
    uint8_t w_spare[3];
    uint32_t w_snid;
    wantune_t wan_tune;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
Following are the members of the
.B wan_tnioc
structure:
.TP
.I w_type
Always \fBWAN_TUNE\fP indicating that a \fBwan_tnioc\fP structure is the
argument of the input-output control.
.TP
.I w_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.  Always set to zero by the user and ignored by the
provider.
.TP
.I w_snid
The subnetwork (link) identifier for which to set or retrieve tunables. 
.TP
.I wan_tune
Contains a \fBwantune_t\fP structure that conveys the tunables.
.PP
The \fBwantune_t\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct wantune {
    uint16_t WAN_options;
    struct WAN_hddef WAN_hd;
} wantune_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_options
This field is a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBTRANSLATE\fP\(em'u
.B TRANSLATE
When this bit is present, translate the remote address to an interface address
using the WAN address mapping tables.
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_hd
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_hddef {
    uint16_t WAN_maxframe;
    uint32_t WAN_baud;
    uint16_t WAN_interface;
    wancpdef_t WAN_cpdef;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_maxframe
Sets the maximum frame size (in bits).
.TP
.I WAN_baud
For asynchronous interfaces, sets the baud rate associated with the interface.
.TP
.I WAN_interface
Specifies the interface type.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B WAN_X21
.PD 0
.TP
.B WAN_V28
.TP
.B WAN_V35
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_cpdef
This field contains a \fBwancpdef_t\fP union that provides alternative settings
depending on the included type.
.PP
The \fBwancpdef_t\fP union is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef union {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    struct WAN_x21 WAN_x21def;
    struct WAN_v25 WAN_v25def;
} wancpdef_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
Determines the structure contained in the \fBwancpdef_t\fP union that is
relevant.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_V25bis\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_NONE
There is no structure contained in the union.  Only the
.I WAN_cptype
member is significant.
.TP
.B WAN_X21P
There is a \fBWAN_x21\fP structure contained in the union.  The
.I WAN_x25def
member is significant.
.TP
.B WAN_V25bis
There is a \fBWAN_v25\fP structure contained in the union.  The
.I WAN_v25def
member is significant.
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_x21def
Significant when the \fIWAN_cptype\fP member is set to \fBWAN_X21P\fP.  When
significant, this member contains a \fBWAN_x21\fP structure.
.TP
.I WAN_v25def
Significant when the \fIWAN_cptype\fP member is set to \fBWAN_V25bis\fP.  When
significant, this member contains a \fBWAN_v25\fP structure.
.PP
The \fBWAN_x21\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_x21 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    uint16_t T1;
    uint16_t T2;
    uint16_t T3A;
    uint16_t T4B;
    uint16_t T5;
    uint16_t T6;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIWAN_cptype\fP\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fBWAN_X21P\fP.
.TP
.I T1
Call request state timer.
.PD 0
.TP
.I T2
EOS to data transfer timer.
.TP
.I T3A
Call progress signals timer.
.TP
.I T4B
DCE provided info timer.
.TP
.I T5
DTE clear request timer.
.TP
.I T6
DTE clear configuration state timer.
.PD
.PP
The \fBWAN_v25\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_v25 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    uint16_t callreq;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIWAN_cptype\fP\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fBWAN_V25bis\fP.
.TP
.I callreq
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B wan_tnioc
structure is used by the
.I W_SETTUNE
input-output control for the
.BR WAN (7)
interface.  See
.BR wan (4)
for details.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Wide Area Network (WAN) interface is a proprietary interface without a
formal standard.  Either the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
or the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The
.B wan_tnioc
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/snet/wan_control.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR WAN (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B wan_tnioc
structure is compatible with WAN, and implementations based on WAN such as
.BR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.BR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.BR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.BR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
WAN is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the CDI or DLPI
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR WAN (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The WAN is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of WAN conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the WAN.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
The WAN is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The WAN interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The WAN was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
