'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/wantune.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH WANTUNE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B wantune
\- WAN tuning structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Wide Area Network (WAN)" ,
.[
wan revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR wan (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/snet/wan_control.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct wantune {
    uint16_t WAN_options;
    struct WAN_hddef WAN_hd;
} wantune_t;

#define WAN_DTE         0
#define WAN_DCE         1

struct WAN_hddef {
    uint16_t WAN_maxframe;         /* WAN maximum frame size. */
    uint32_t WAN_baud;             /* WAN baud rate. */
    uint16_t WAN_interface;        /* WAN physical interface. */
    union {
        uint16_t WAN_cptype;       /* significant when WAN_NONE */
        struct WAN_x21 WAN_x21def; /* significant when WAN_X21P */
        struct WAN_v25 WAN_v25def; /* significant when WAN_V25bis */
    } WAN_cpdef;                   /* call procedure definitions */
};

struct WAN_x21 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;           /* Always WAN_X21P. */
    uint16_t T1;                   /* X.21 T1 */
    uint16_t T2;                   /* X.21 T2 */
    uint16_t T3A;                  /* X.21 T3A */
    uint16_t T4B;                  /* X.21 T4B */
    uint16_t T5;                   /* X.21 T5 */
    uint16_t T6;                   /* X.21 T6 */
};

struct WAN_v25 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;           /* Always WAN_V25bis. */
    uint16_t callreq;              /* V.25 bis T1 */
};\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B wantune
structure include:
.TP \w'\ \fIWAN_interface\fR\(em'u
.I WAN_options
WAN options.
.PD 0
.TP
.I WAN_hd
WAN hardware definitions.
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_hddef
structure include:
.TP \w'\ \fIWAN_interface\fR\(em'u
.I WAN_maxframe
WAN maximum frame size (octets).
.PD 0
.TP
.I WAN_baud
WAN baud rate.
.TP
.I WAN_interface
WAN physical interface.
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_NONE\fP.
.TP
.I WAN_x21def
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_X21P\fP.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I WAN_v25def
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_V25bis\fP.
.[
v25bis
.]
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_x21
structure include:
.TP \w'\ \fIWAN_interface\fR\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fB\)WAN_X21P\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I T1
X.21 T1.
.TP
.I T2
X.21 T2.
.TP
.I T3A
X.21 T3A.
.TP
.I T4B
X.21 T4B.
.TP
.I T5
X.21 T5.
.TP
.I T6
X.21 T6.
.PD
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_v25
structure include:
.TP \w'\ \fIWAN_interface\fR\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fB\)WAN_V25bis\fP.
.PD 0
.TP
.I callreq
V.25 bis T1.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B wantune
structure is used to provide WAN configuration and tuning parameters for use
with the
.BR W_GETTUNE "(7) and " W_SETTUNE (7)
input-output control commands from the
.IR "Wide Area Network (WAN)" ,
.BR wan (7).
.[
wan revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.PP
The
.B wantune
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR wantune (8)
utility,
but may be used directly by user-space programs.callreq
.\"
.PP
The members of the
.B wantune
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I WAN_options
WAN options.
.TP
.I WAN_hd
Wan hardware definitions.  This member is a structure of type
.BR WAN_hddef .
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_hddef
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I WAN_maxframe
WAN maximum frame size in octets.
.TP
.I WAN_baud
WAN baud rate.
.TP
.I WAN_interface
WAN physical interface.
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_NONE\fP.  This member, then, contains no other
information.
.TP
.I WAN_x21def
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_X21P\fP.  This member, then, contains a
.BR WAN_x21
structure.
.TP
.I WAN_v25def
WAN call procedures for \fB\)WAN_V25bis\fP.  This member, then, contains a
.BR WAN_v25
structure.
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_x21
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
Specifies the type of the call procedural definitions.
Always \fB\)WAN_X21P\fP.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T1
X.21 T1: call-request to proceed-to-select timer.
The timeout for the call request state in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T2
X.21 T2: end-of-selection to ready-for-data timer.
The timeout for the EOS to data transfer in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T3A
X.21 T3A: additional call prog or DCE provided info timer.
The timeout for call progress signals in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T4B
X.21 T4B: call-accept to ready-for-data timer.
The timeout for DCE provided information in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T5
X.21 T5: DTE clear-request to DCE ready timer.
The timeout for DTE clear request in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.TP
.I T6
X.21 T6: DTE clear-confirmation to DCE ready timer.
The timeout for DTE clear confirm state in deciseconds.
.[
x21
.]
.PP
The members of the
.B WAN_v25
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
Specifies the type of the call procedural definitions.
Always \fB\)WAN_V25bis\fP.
.[
v25bis
.]
.TP
.I callreq
V.25 bis T1: call initialization to call establishment timer.
Contains the abort time (in deciseconds) for the call request command if the
network does not support CFI.
.[
v25bis
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/wan_control.h
Defines the
.B wantune
structure.
.TP
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory containing
.BR wantemplate (5)
files following the form of the
.BR wantune
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR wantemplate (5),
.BR wantune (5),
.BR wan (4),
.BR W_SETTUNE (7),
.BR W_GETTUNE (7),
.BR wan (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B wantune
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B wantune
structure is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Most implementations doe not define the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP flag nor the
\fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP field.
.IP \(em
Some implementations, such as
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
document the \fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP member,  but not the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP
flag.
.IP \(em
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
and
.IR "IRIS X.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
do not document either the \fB\)IGN_DM_ERROR\fP flag nor the
\fI\)sabm_in_x32\fP member.
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR wan (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Wide Area Network (WAN)" ,
.[
wan revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR wan (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B wantune
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
