'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: wantemplate.5.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: wantemplate.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH WANTEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B wantemplate
\- Wide Area Network File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B wantemplate
describes the file format for input to the
.BR wantune (8)
command for WAN class subnetworks.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the WAN configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the
.B wantune_t
structure, that is carried in a
.B wan_tnioc
structure by the
.B W_SETTUNE
input-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created WAN subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in ISO/IEC 3309.
.[
iso3309
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The WAN subnetwork template consists of 12 or more lines containing the
following information:
.\"
.IP \ 1. \w'00.\(en'u
.B WAN_maxframe
specifies the maximum frame size for the WAN interface in octets.
The value is a positive integer.
.\"
.IP \ 2.
.B WAN_baud
specifies the baud rate for the WAN interface in bits per second.  When zero
(0), an external clock must be provided.  The value is a positive integer.
.\"
.IP \ 3.
.B WAN_translate
specifies whether a remote address should be translated into an interface
address using the address mapping function.  See
.BR wanmap (8)
for more information.  When this value is \*(lqY\*(rq, \*(lqy\*(rq or
\*(lq1\*(rq, the address mapping will be used to translate the remote address.
.\"
.IP \ 4.
.B WAN_phys_int
specifies the physical interface type.  This can be the integer numeric value
\*(lq0\*(rq through \*(lq7\*(rq, where the interpretation of these values iw
described in the table below:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb
nblbl.
Val:Symbol:Description
_
0:WAN_X21:X.21 physical interface
1:WAN_V28:V.28 physical interface
2:WAN_V35:V.35 physical interface
.\"3:WAN_V36:V.36 physical interface
.\"4:WAN_RS232:RS-232 physical interface
.\"5:WAN_RS422:RS-422 physical interface
.\"6:WAN_T1E1:G.703/G.704 physical interface
.\"7:WAN_ATM:ATM physical interface
_
.TE
.RE
.\"
.IP \ 5.
.B WAN_connect_proc
specifies the calling procedures to be used when generating outgoing calls on
the WAN interface.  This can be the values \*(lq0\*(rq, \*(lq1\*(rq or
\*(lq2\*(rq, where the interpretation of these values is described in the
table below:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb
nblbl.
Val:Symbol:Description
_
0:WAN_NONE:No calling procedures.
1:WAN_X21P:X.21 calling procedures.
2:WAN_V25bis:V.25 bis calling procedures.
_
.TE
.RE
.\"
.IP \ 6.
.B WAN_x21_T1
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T1 Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the amount of time that the DTE will await
\fIproceed-to-select\fP having signalled \fIcall request\fP to the DCE.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 30 (3.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP \ 7.
.B WAN_x21_T2
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T2 Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the amount of time that the DTE will await \fIready for
data\fP having signalled \fIend-of-selection\fP.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 200 (20.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP \ 8.
.B WAN_x21_T3A
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T3A Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the time interval the DTE will await additional \fIcall
progress signals\fP or \fIDCE provided information\fP.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 60 (6.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP \ 9.
.B WAN_x21_T4B
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T4B Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the time interval the DTE will await \fIready for data\fP
having signalled \fIcall accept\fP.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 60 (6.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP 10.
.B WAN_x21_T5
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T5 Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the time interval the DTE will await \fIDCE ready\fP having
signalled \fIDTE clear request\fP.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 20 (2.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP 11.
.B WAN_x21_T6
specifies the time interval for the X.21 T6 Timer:
.[
x21
.]
the time interval the DTE will await \fIDCE ready\fP having
signalled \fIDTE clear confirmation\fP.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 20 (2.0 seconds).
.\"
.IP 12.
.B WAN_v25_callreq
specifies the time interval for the V.25 bis DTE T1 Timer:
.[
v25bis
.]
the time interval the DTE will await successful call
establishment after having initiated a call.
The value is a integer number of deciseconds (0.1 seconds),
with a default value of 6000 (600.0 seconds or about 5 minutes).
.RS
.PP
Note that V.25 Timer T1 is only really necessary when CFI (Call Failure
Indication, aka Anwer Supervision) is not provided by the network.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR wantune (8),
.BR wan (4),
.BR xnetd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B wantemplate
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The template provided is largely compatible across most implementations.
.IP \(em
Some implementations provide extensions to the \fBwan_tnioc\fP structure or
provide additional input-output controls with additional tuning parameters.
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR wantune (8),
.BR wan (4),
.RB xnetd (8),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B wantemplate
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
x21
.]
.[
x21bis
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
