'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man5/wlcfg.5.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH WLCFG 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B wlcfg
\- X.25 Configuration Structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <snet/x25_control.h>

#define MAXPVCLCNSSIZE 36

struct wlcfg {
    uint32_t U_SN_ID;
    uchar NET_MODE;
    uchar X25_VSN;
    uchar L3PLPMODE;
    short LPC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short HPC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short LIC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short HIC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short LTC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short HTC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short LOC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short HOC;            /* LCI - 12 bits significant */
    short NPCchannels;    /* number of PVC channels */
    short NICchannels;    /* number or incoming channels */
    short NTCchannels;    /* number of two-way channels */
    short NOCchannels;    /* number of outgoing channels */
    short Nochnls;        /* number of channels */
    uchar THISGFI;
    uchar LOCMAXPKTSIZE;  /* 7 to 12 (1<<7 == 128 to 1<<12 == 4096) */
    uchar REMMAXPKTSIZE;  /* 7 to 12 (1<<7 == 128 to 1<<12 == 4096) */
    uchar LOCDEFPKTSIZE;  /* 7 to 12 (1<<7 == 128 to 1<<12 == 4096) */
    uchar REMDEFPKTSIZE;  /* 7 to 12 (1<<7 == 128 to 1<<12 == 4096) */
    uchar LOCMAXWSIZE;    /* 1 to (Modulo-1) */
    uchar REMMAXWSIZE;    /* 1 to (Modulo-1) */
    uchar LOCDEFWSIZE;    /* 1 to (Modulo-1) */
    uchar REMDEFWSIZE;    /* 1 to (Modulo-1) */
    ushort MAXNSDULEN;
    short ACKDELAY;
    short T20value;
    short T21value;
    short T22value;
    short T23value;
    short T24value;
    short T25value;
    short T26value;
    short T28value;
    short idlevalue;
    short connectvalue;
    uchar R20value;
    uchar R22value;
    uchar R23value;
    uchar R28value;
    ushort localdelay;
    ushort accessdelay;
    uchar locmaxthclass;
    uchar remmaxthclass;
    uchar locdefthclass;
    uchar remdefthclass;
    uchar locminthclass;
    uchar remminthclass;
    uchar CUG_CONTROL;
    ushort SUB_MODES;
    struct {
        ushort SNMODES;
        uchar intl_addr_recogn;
        uchar intl_prioritised;
        uchar dnic1;
        uchar dnic2;
        uchar prty_encode_control;
        uchar prty_pkt_forced_value;
        uchar src_addr_control;
        uchar dbit_control;
        uchar thrclass_neg_to_def;
        uchar thclass_type;
        uchar thclass_wmap[16];
        uchar thclass_pmap[16];
    } psdn_local;
    struct lsapformat local_address;
    uchar pvclcns[MAXPVCLCNSSIZE];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B wlcfg
structure include:
.TP \w'\fBLOCDEFPKTSIZE\fP\(em\ 'u
.I U_SN_ID
Subnetwork (link) identifier.
.PD 0
.TP
.I NET_MODE
Network mode.
.TP
.I X25_VSN
X.25 Version.
.TP
.I L3PLPMODE
DTE/DCE/DXE mode.
.TP
.IR LPC ", " HPC
Lowest and highest PCV LCI.
.TP
.IR LIC ", " HIC
Lowest and highest incoming LCI.
.TP
.IR LTC ", " HTC
Lowest and highest two-way LCI.
.TP
.IR LOC ", " HOC
Lowest and highest outgoing LCI.
.TP
.I NPCchannels
Number of PVC channels.
.TP
.I NICchannels
Number of Incoming Channels.
.TP
.I NTCchannels
Number of Two-Way Channels.
.TP
.I NOCchannels
Number of Outgoing Channels.
.TP
.I Nochnls
Total Number of Channels.
.TP
.I THISGFI
Sequencing (Modulo).
.TP
.I LOCMAXPKTSIZE
Local maximum packet size.
.TP
.I REMMAXPKTSIZE
Remote maximum packet size.
.TP
.I LOCDEFPKTSIZE
Local default packet size.
.TP
.I REMDEFPKTSIZE
Remote default packet size.
.TP
.I LOCMAXWSIZE
Local maximum window size.
.TP
.I REMMAXWSIZE
Remote maximum window size.
.TP
.I LOCDEFWSIZE
Local default window size.
.TP
.I REMDEFWSIZE
Remote default window size.
.TP
.I MAXNSDULEN
Maximum NSDU length.
.TP
.I ACKDELAY
Acknowledgement delay.
.TP
.I T20value
T20 timeout value.
.TP
.I T21value
T21 timeout value.
.TP
.I T22value
T22 timeout value.
.TP
.I T23value
T23 timeout value.
.TP
.I T24value
T24 timeout value.
.TP
.I T25value
T25 timeout value.
.TP
.I T26value
T26 timeout value.
.TP
.I T28value
T28 timeout value.
.TP
.I idlevalue
Idle timeout value.
.TP
.I connectvalue
Connect timeout value.
.TP
.I R20value
R20 counter value.
.TP
.I R22value
R22 counter value.
.TP
.I R23value
R23 counter value.
.TP
.I R28value
R28 counter value.
.TP
.I localdelay
Local delay.
.TP
.I accessdelay
Access delay.
.TP
.I locmaxthclass
Local maximum throughput class.
.TP
.I remmaxthclass
Remote maximum throughput class.
.TP
.I locdefthclass
Local default throughput class.
.TP
.I remdefthclass
Remote default throughput class.
.TP
.I locminthclass
Local minimum throughput class.
.TP
.I remminthclass
Remote minimum throughput class.
.TP
.I CUG_CONTROL
Closed User Group control.
.TP
.I SUB_MODES
Subscription modes.
.TP
.I psdn_local
Local PSDN information:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBprty_pkt_forced_value\fP\(em\ 'u
.I ushort SNMODES
Subnetwork modes.
.TP
.I intl_addr_recogn
International address region.
.TP
.I intl_prioritised
International prioritized.
.TP
.I dnic1
DNIC number 1.
.TP
.I dnic2
DNIC number 2.
.TP
.I prty_encode_control
Priority encode control.
.TP
.I prty_pkt_forced_value
Priority packet forced value.
.TP
.I src_addr_control
Source address control.
.TP
.I dbit_control
D-bit control.
.TP
.I thrclass_neg_to_def
Throughput class negative to default.
.TP
.I thclass_type
Throughput class type.
.TP
.I thclass_wmap[16]
Throughput class window size mapping.
.TP
.I thclass_pmap[16]
Throughput class packet size mapping.
.RE
.TP
.I local_address
Local address.
.TP
.I pvclcns
PVC logical channel numbers.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B wlcfg
structure is used to provide X.25 configuration and tuning parameters for use
with the
.BR N_snconfig "(7) and " N_snread (7)
input-output control commands from the
.BR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.BR nli (7).
.[
nli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.PP
The
.B wlcfg
structure, and the corresponding input-output controls, are used primarily by
the
.BR x25tune (8)
utility,
but may be used directly by user-space programs.
.\"
.PP
The members of the
.B wlcfg
structure are described as follows:
.TP
.I U_SN_ID
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier of the link that was configured or
is to be configured.
.TP
.I NET_MODE
Specifies the various characteristics of the network protocol.  Valid values
are integers, as epcified below, that refer to the networks listed:
.RS
.PP
.bp
.if \n(cR \{\
.pl \n(nl+100
.\}
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|cb|lb
lb|n|l.
Symbol:Number:Description
_
X25_LLC:1:ISO/IEC 8881
X25_88:2:ISO/IEC 8208 (1988)
X25_84:3:ISO/IEC 8208 (1984)
X25_80:4:ISO/IEC 8208 (1980)
PSS:5:UK
AUSTPAC:6:Australia
DATAPAC:7:Canada
DDN:8:DoD
TELENET:9:USA
TRANSPAC:10:France
TYMNET:11:USA
DATEX_P:12:West Germany
DDX_P:13:Japan
VENUS_P:14:Japan
ACCUNET:15:USA
ITAPAC:16:Italy
DATAPAK:17:Sweden
DATANET:18:Holland
DCS:19:Belgium
TELEPAC:20:Switzerland
F_DATAPAC:21:Finland
FINPAC:22:Finland
PACNET:23:New Zealand
LUXPAC:24:Luxembourgh
X25_CIRCUIT:25:circuit switched
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.I X25_VSN
Specifies the version of the X.25 protocol that is being used over the
network.  Valid values are integers, as specified below.  Note that a
.I NET_MODE
of
.B X25_LLC
will override any value in this field to 1984 (or later).
.RS
.PP
.bp
.if \n(cR \{\
.pl \n(nl+100
.\}
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb
n|l.
Number:Description
_
80:indicates 1980
84:indicates 1984
88:indicates 1988
1980:indicates 1980
1984:indicates 1984
1988:indicates 1988
1992:indicates 1992
1996:indicates 1996
2000:indicates 2000
2004:indicates 2004
\fIYYYY\fP:indicates \fIYYYY\fP
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.I L3PLPMODE
Specifies the DTE/DCE nature of the link.  Value values are integers, as
specified below.  Note that DXE operation is per ISO 8208.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RS
.PP
.bp
.if \n(cR \{\
.pl \n(nl+100
.\}
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb
n|l.
Number:Description
_
0:indicates DCE
1:indicates DTE
2:indicates DXE
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.IR LPC ", " HPC
Specifies the lowest and highest LCI for Permanent Virtual Circuits (PVC).
.BR LPC " and " HPC
define the range of LCI that are assigned to PVC.
This range cannot overlap with other defined ranges.
Setting this value to zero and
.B HPC
to zero specifies that there are no PVC.
Valid values are from 0 to 4096,
but
.B LPC
must be less than or equal to
.BR HPC .
.TP
.IR LIC ", " HIC
Specifies the lowest and highest LCI for incoming (IC) VC.
.BR LIC " and " HIC
define the range of LCI that are assigned to incoming call circuits.
This range cannot overlap with other defined ranges.
.BR LIC " and " HIC
zero means no IC VC.
Valid values are from 0 to 4096,
but
.B LIC
must be less than or equal to
.BR HIC .
.TP
.IR LTC ", " HTC
Specifies the lowest and highest LCI for two-way (TW) VC.
.BR LTC " and " HTC
define the LCI that are assigned to two-way call circuits.
This range cannot overlap with other defined ranges.
.BR LTC " and " HTC
zero means no TW VC.
Valid values are from 0 to 4096,
but
.B LTC
must be less than or equal to
.BR HTC .
.TP
.IR LOC ", " HOC
Specifies the lowest and highest LCI for outgoing (OG) VC.
.BR LOC " and " HOC
define the LCI that are assigned to outgoing call circuits.
This range cannot overlap with other defined ranges.
.BR LOC " and " HOC
zero means no OG VC.
Valid values are from 0 to 4096,
but
.B LOC
must be less than or equal to
.BR HOC.
.TP
.I NPCchannels
Specifies the number of PVC channels.
.TP
.I NICchannels
Specifies the number of incoming channels.
.TP
.I NTCchannels
Specifies the number of two-way channels.
.TP
.I NOCchannels
Specifies the number of outgoing channels.
.TP
.I Nochnls
Specifies the total number of channels.
.TP
.I THISGFI
Specifies which Modulo operates on the network.  It can have on of four
integer values.
.RS
.PP
.bp
.if \n(cR \{\
.pl \n(nl+100
.\}
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb|lb|lb|lb
lb|n|l|n|l.
Symbol:Value:Modulo:Bits:Sequencing
_
G_8:8:Modulo 8:3 bits:normal
G_128:128:Modulo 128:7 bits:extended
G_32768:32768:Modulo 32768:15 bits:super extended
G_2147483648:2147483648:Modulo 2147483648:31 bits:super duper extended
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.I LOCMAXPKTSIZE
Specifies the maximum acceptable packet size for sent packets.
The value is the logarithm, base two, of the packet size.  Valid values are
in the range from 7 to 12, signifying a size of 128 to 4096 in powers of two.
The default value is 7 (or 128 octets).
The local maximum packet size and remote maximum packet size should be the
same.
The value should be less than the maximum LAPB I-frame size, N2, see
.BR lapbtune (5).
.TP
.I REMMAXPKTSIZE
Specifies the maximum acceptable packet size for received packets.
The value is the logarithm, base two, of the packet size.  Valid values are
in the range from 7 to 12, signifying a size of 128 to 4096 in powers of two.
The default value is 7 (or 128 octets).
The local maximum packet size and remote maximum packet size should be the
same.
The value should be less than the maximum LAPB I-frame size, N2, see
.BR lapbtune (5).
.TP
.I LOCDEFPKTSIZE
Specifies the default packet size for sent packets.
The value is the logarithm, base two, of the packet size.  Valid values are
in the range from 7 to 12, signifying a size of 128 to 4096 in powers of two.
The local default packet size and remote maximum packet size should be the
same.
The default value is 7 (or 128 octets).
When specified as 7 (128 octets), negotiation of the non-standard default
packet size facility will neither be initiated nor rejected.
.TP
.I REMDEFPKTSIZE
Specifies the default packet size for received packets.
The value is the logarithm, base two, of the packet size.  Valid values are
in the range from 7 to 12, signifying a size of 128 to 4096 in powers of two.
The local default packet size and remote maximum packet size should be the
same.
The default value is 7 (or 128 octets).
When specified as 7 (128 octets), negotiation of the non-standard default
packet size facility will neither be initiated nor rejected.
.TP
.I LOCMAXWSIZE
Specifies the local maximum window size.
The value must be greater than one and less than the modulus value.
The default value is 2 for Modulo 8 or Modulo 128; and 128 for Modulo 32768.
.TP
.I REMMAXWSIZE
Specifies the remote maximum window size.
The value must be greater than one and less than the modulus value.
The default value is 2 for Modulo 8 or Modulo 128; and 128 for Modulo 32768.
.TP
.I LOCDEFWSIZE
Specifies the local default window size.
The value must be greater than one and less than the modulus value.
The default value is 2 for Modulo 8 or Modulo 128, or 128 for Modulo 32768,
the non-standard default window size facility will neither be initiated nor
rejected.
.TP
.I REMDEFWSIZE
Specifies the remote default window size.
The value must be greater than one and less than the modulus value.
The default value is 2 for Modulo 8 or Modulo 128, or 128 for Modulo 32768,
the non-standard default window size facility will neither be initiated nor
rejected.
.TP
.I MAXNSDULEN
Specifies the maximum NSDU length in octets.
.TP
.I ACKDELAY
Specifies the maximum acknowledgement delay in deciseconds (0.1 seconds).
.TP
.I T20value
(Restart Request Response Time)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await a restart confirmation or
restart indication following issuing a restart request.
The timeout value should not be less than 180 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
180 seconds is specified as 1800 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T21value
(Call Request Response Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await a call connected or clear
indication having issued a call request.
The timeout value should not be less than 200 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
200 seconds is specified as 2000 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T22value
(Reset Request Response Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await a reset confirmation or reset
indication having issued a reset request.
The timeout value should not be less than 180 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
180 seconds is specified as 1800 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T23value
(Clear Request Response Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await a clear confirmation or clear
indication having issued a clear request.
The timeout value should not be less than 180 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
180 seconds is specified as 1800 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T24value
(Window Status Transmission Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will wait without sending a window status
packet (a packet with a P(R): RR, RNR, DATA or REJECT).
The timeout value should not be less than 180 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
180 seconds is specified as 1800 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T25value
(Window Rotation Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await acknowledgement of all
outstanding data packets having transmitted the last available data packet or
the window is rotated.
The timeout value should not be less than 200 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
200 seconds is specified as 2000 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T26value
(Interrupt Response Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await an interrupt confirmation
having issued an interrupt.
The timeout value should not be less than 180 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
180 seconds is specified as 1800 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I T28value
(Registration Request Response Timer)
Specifies the time period that the DTE will await a registration confirmation
or diagnostic packet having issued a registration request.
The timeout value should not be less than 300 seconds.
The value is in integral units of deciseconds (0.1 seconds), so an interval of
300 seconds is specified as 3000 (deciseconds).
.TP
.I idlevalue
.TP
.I connectvalue
.TP
.I R20value
(Restart Request Retransmission Count)
Specifies the number of times that a restart request will be re-issued, and
T20 restarted, upon expiry of timer T20.  This value has a default of 1 and a
minimum of 1.
.TP
.I R22value
(Reset Request Retransmission Count)
Specifies the number of times that a reset request will be re-issued, and T22
restarted, upon expiry of timer T22.  This value has a default of 1 and a
minimum of 1.
.TP
.I R23value
(Clear Request Retransmission Count)
Specifies the number of times that a clear request will be re-issued, and T23
retstarted, upon expiry of timer T23.  This value has a default of 1 and a
minimum of 1.
.TP
.I R28value
(Registration Request Retransmission Count)
Specifies the number of times a registration request will be reissued, and
T28 restarted, upon expiry of T28.  This value has a default of 1.  A value
of zero (0) conveys that no reissuing will be performed.
.RS
.PP
Note that R28 is only needed if the associated procedure (ISO/IEC 8208:2000
Section 13.1) is used.
.RE
.TP
.I localdelay
.TP
.I accessdelay
.TP
.I locmaxthclass
Specifies the local maximum throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I remmaxthclass
Specifies the remote maximum throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I locdefthclass
Specifies the local default throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I remdefthclass
Specifies the remote default throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I locminthclass
Specifies the local minimum throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I remminthclass
Specifies the remote minimum throughput class.
The value is an integer number from 3 to 44.
.RS
.PP
Basic ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3 to 16, corresponding
to throughputs between 75 and 192,000 bits/s, listed in Table 20a of ISO/IEC
8208:2000, or Extended ISO 8208 throughput classes can have a value from 3
through 44, corresponding to throughputs between 75 and 2,048,000 bits/s,
listed in Table 20b of ISO/EIC 8208:2000.
.[
iso8208
.]
.RE
.TP
.I CUG_CONTROL
.TP
.I SUB_MODES

.TP
.I psdn_local
.RS
.TP
.I SNMODES
.TP
.I intl_addr_recogn
.TP
.I intl_prioritised
The value is \*(lq\fBY\fP\*(rq for use and \*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq for non-use.
.TP
.I dnic1
The value is 4 hexadecimal digits.
.TP
.I dnic2
The value is 4 hexadecimal digits.
.TP
.I prty_encode_control
The value is an integer decimal number.
.TP
.I prty_pkt_forced_value
The value is an integer decimal number.
.TP
.I src_addr_control
The value is an integer decimal number.
.TP
.I dbit_control
Specifies the action to be taken when the local user sends a data packet with
the D-bit set, but the remote party has not indicated D-bit support.  It can
have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.bp
.if \n(cR \{\
.pl \n(nl+100
.\}
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb
n|l.
Value:Description
_
0:leave the D-bit set and pass the packet on
1:zero the D-bit and pass the packet on
2:reset the call
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.I thrclass_neg_to_def
The value is \*(lq\fBY\fP\*(rq for use and \*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq for non-use.
.TP
.I thclass_type
The value is an integer decimal number.
.TP
.I thclass_wmap[16]
The value is 16 decimal numbers, 0 to 255, separated by \*(lq\fB.\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.I thclass_pmap[16]
The value is 16 decimal numbers, 0 to 255, separated by \*(lq\fB.\fP\*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.I struct lsapformat local_address
.TP
.I pvclcns[MAXPVCLCNSSIZE]
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/snet/x25_control.h
Defines the
.B wlcfg
structure.
.TP
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory containing
.BR x25template (5)
files following the form of the
.BR wlcfg
structure.
See
.BR x25template (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR x25template (5),
.BR x25tune (8),
.BR plp (4),
.BR N_snconfig (7),
.BR N_snread (7),
.BR nli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B wlcfg
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B wlcfg
structure is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.PP
For additional compatibility information see,
.BR plp (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.[
nli revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR nli (7),
structures are not standardized; however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
conforms to
.IR "SpiderX25" ,
.[
spiderx25
.]
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B wlcfg
structure first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
