'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x400pmib.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008/01/05 00:00:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/01/05 00:00:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x400pmib.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008/01/05 00:00:20  brian
.\" - added/updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH X400PMIB 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B x400pmib
\- OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB SNMP Agent and AgentX Sub-agent
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS 0
.hy 0
.HP
\fBexport PATH="/usr/sbin:$PATH"\fP
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP [\fIGENERAL\-OPTIONS\fP] [\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIARGUMENTS\fP]
.ad l
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ [{\fB\-q\fP|\fB\-\-quiet\fP|\fB\-\-quick\fP}]
[{\fB\-d\fP|\fB\-\-debug\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fILEVEL\fP]]
[{\fB\-V\fP|\fB\-\-verbose\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fILEVEL\fP]]
.br
[\fIOPTIONS\fP]\ [\fIARGUMENTS\fP]
.ad b
.ad l
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ [{\fB\-q\fP|\fB\-\-quiet\fP|\fB\-\-quick\fP}]
[{\fB\-d\fP|\fB\-\-debug\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fILEVEL\fP]]
[{\fB\-V\fP|\fB\-\-verbose\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fILEVEL\fP]]
.br
[{\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-dont\-fork\fP}]
[{\fB\-D\fP|\fB\-\-debug\-tokens\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fITOKEN\fP[\fB,\fP\fITOKEN\fP]*]]
[{\fB\-M\fP|\fB\-\-master\fP}]
[{\fB\-x\fP|\fB\-\-agentx\-socket\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fISOCKET\fP]]
[{\fB\-L\fP|\fB\-\-log\-console\fP}]
[{\fB\-a\fP|\fB\-\-log\-addresses\fP}]
[{\fB\-d\fP|\fB\-\-dump\fP}]
[{\fB\-p\fP|\fB\-\-port\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fIPORTNUM\fP]
[{\fB\-X\fP|\fB\-\-agentx\fP}]
[{\fB\-c\fP|\fB\-\-config\-file\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fICONFIGFILE\fP]
[{\fB\-C\fP|\fB\-\-config\-only\fP}]
[{\fB\-s\fP|\fB\-\-syslog\fP}]
[{\fB\-A\fP|\fB\-\-append\fP}]
[{\fB\-r\fP|\fB\-\-noroot\fP}]
[{\fB\-l\fP|\fB\-\-logfile\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][\fILOGFILE\fP]}]
[{\fB\-g\fP|\fB\-\-gid\fP|\fB\-\-groupid\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fIGID\fP]
[{\fB\-u\fP|\fB\-\-uid\fP|\fB\-\-userid\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fIUID\fP]
[{\fB\-T\fP|\fB\-\-transport\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ][{\fIUDP\fP|\fITCP\fP}]]
[{\fB\-P\fP|\fB\-\-pidfile\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fIPIDFILE\fP]
[{\fB\-k\fP|\fB\-\-keep\-open\fP}]
[{\fB\-S\fP|\fB\-\-sysctl\-file\fP[\fB=\fP]}[\ ]\fIFILENAME\fP]
[{\fB\-t\fP|\fB\-\-agent\-alarms\fP}]
.br
[\fIARGUMENT\fP[\ \fIARGUMENT\fP]*]
.ad b
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ {\fB\-H\fP|\fB\-\-help\-directives\fP}\ [\fI...\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ {\fB\-h\fP|\fB\-\-help\fP}\ [\fI...\fP]
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ {\fB\-v\fP|\fB\-\-version\fP}\ [\fI...\fP]
.HP
\fBx400pmib\fP\ {\fB\-y\fP|\fB\-\-copying\fP}\ [\fI...\fP]
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options recognized by
.B x400pmib
are summarized, alphabetically sorted by short option, as follows (see
.RI \(lq DESCRIPTION ,\(rq
below, for more detailed option descriptions):
.TP \w'\fB-I\fP,\ \fB--initialize\fP\ [\fB-\fP][\fIMODULE\fP[\fB,\fP\fIMODULE\fP]*]\(em'u
\fB-a\fP, \fB--log-addresses\fP
Log addresses connecting to agent.
.PD 0
.TP
\fB-A\fP, \fB--append\fP
Append to log files without truncating.
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config-file\fP \fICONFIGFILE\fP
Use optional configuration file.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--config-only\fP
Only use specified configuration files.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--dump\fP
Dump sent and received PDUs in hexadecimal.
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Set debugging level.
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug-tokens\fP [\fITOKEN\fP[\fB,\fP\fITOKEN\fP]*]
Set debugging tokens.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--dont-fork\fP
Run in the foreground.
.TP
\fB-g\fP, \fB--gid\fP, \fB--groupid\fP \fIGID\fP
Become group \fIGID\fP after listening on sockets.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP
Print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-H\fP, \fB--help-directives\fP
List agent config directives and exit.
.TP
\fB-I\fP, \fB--initialize\fP [\fB-\fP][\fIMODULE\fP[\fB,\fP\fIMODULE\fP]*]
Specifies modules to initialize (or not).
.TP
\fB-k\fP, \fB--keep-open\fP
Keep management files open between requests.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--logfile\fP [\fILOGFILE\fP]
Log to file
.IR LOGFILE .
.TP
\fB-L\fP, \fB--log-console\fP
Log to the terminal (i.e.
.IR stderr ).
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--master\fP
Run as SNMP master agent.
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--mibdirs\fP \fIMIBDIRS\fP
Read MIBs from directories in
.IR MIBDIRS .
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--nodaemon\fP
Run in the foreground.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--name\fP \fINAME\fP
Use name
.I NAME
when looking up config files.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--port\fP \fIPORTNUM\fP
Listen on port number
.IR PORTNUM .
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--pidfile\fP \fIPIDFILE\fP
Write daemon process identifier to
.IR PIDFILE .
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--pidfile\fP \fIPIDFILE\fP
Write daemon process identifier to
.IR PIDFILE .
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quick\fP
Abbrevaite output for machine readiblity.
.TP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--noroot\fP
Run from non-root process.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--syslog\fP
Log to the system logs.
.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--sysctl-file\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
Use backing sysctl file,
.IR FILENAME .
.TP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--agent-alarms\fP
Agent blocks
.RI { SIGALRM }.
.TP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--transport\fP [\fITRANSPORT\fP]
Default transport (udp or tcp).
.TP
\fB-u\fP, \fB--uid\fP, \fB--userid\fP \fIUID\fP
Become user \fIUID\fP after listening on sockets.
.TP
\fB-U\fP, \fB--dont-remove-pidfile\fP
Do not remove
.I PIDFILE
when shutting down.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP
Print version info on
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Be verbose.
.TP
\fB-x\fP, \fB--agentx-socket\fP [\fISOCKET\fP]
Attach to AgentX socket,
.IR SOCKET .
.TP
\fB-X\fP, \fB--agentx\fP
Run as AgentX agent instead of master.
.TP
\fB-y\fP, \fB--copyring\fP
Print copying info to
.I stdout
and exit.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B x400pmib
provides a daemon or foreground executable which provides an AgentX
.[
AgentX
.]
sub-agent implementation of the
.I OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB
which provides a card-specific management information base for
Tormenta II and III cards.
The
.I OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB
provides management station access to the X400P Multiplex driver configuration
information and statistics as well as driver-specific tunables.
.PP
.B x400pmib
is implemented as a typical UCD-SNMP or NET-SNMP SNMP master agent or AgentX
.[
agentx
.]
sub-agent.  It is normally run as an AgentX sub-agent, with the NET-SNMP SNMP
agent daemon,
.BR snmpd (8),
running as the master agent.  Running in this manner,
.B x400pmib
running as an AgentX sub-agent takes most of its default configuration from
the same configuration file as the master agent.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
Non-option arguments can be used to provide additional addresses on which an
SNMP agent or AgentX sub-agent can listen for or register for requests.  In
accordance with UCD-SNMP or NET-SNMP agent configuration.  Each address
represents an address and port combination to be listened upon by an agent, or
connected to by an AgentX subagent.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When executed without any options,
.B x400pmib
will fork twice; become its own session leader; close standard input, error
and output; begin logging to system logs; writes its daemon process id to
.BR /var/run/x400pmib.pid ;
and, runs as an AgentX sub-agent.
.\"
.SS UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP Subagent Options
.PP
The following options are compatible with NET-SNMP automatically generated
subagents.  Long options are X400PMIB specific.
.\"
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug-tokens\fP [\fITOKEN\fP[\fB,\fP\fITOKEN\fP]*]
Turns on debugging output for the specified
.IR TOKEN s.
Without any
.IR TOKEN s
specified, the default is to print all the tokens (which is also equivalent to
the keyword
.RI ' all ').
You might want to try
.RI ' all '
for extremely verbose output.  Note: You cannot put a space between the
.B -D
and the
.IR TOKEN s.
This
.B -D
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8)
and
NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.\"
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--dont-fork\fP, \fB-n\fP, \fB--nodaemon\fP
By default,
.B x400pmib
will place itself in the background by forking twice, becoming its own session
leader, redirecting standard error to a log file, and standard output to an
output file, and close standard input.  This option causes
.B x400pmib
to run in the foreground.  Errors are logged to standard error and output is
generated to standard output.  This mode is primarily for testing and works
well in conjunction with the debug and verbose options.
The
.B -f
form of this option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8)
and NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.\"
.TP
\fB-L\fP, \fB--log-console\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
will open a log file to log errors and output, particularly when run as a
daemon process.  This option suppresses the opening of a log file and causes
both
.I stderr
and
.I stdout
to be sent to the controlling terminal (that is, they are not redirected).
This
.B -L
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8)
and
NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.IP ""
Note that recent versions of NET-SNMP have a far more sophisticated
.B -L
option than was provided with UCD-SNMP.  Note that NET-SNMP autogenerated
subagents use this simple version, while
.BR snmpd (8)
and other NET-SNMP utility commands use the more sophisticated version.
.\"
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--master\fP
By default,
.B x400pmib
will attempt to run as an AgentX sub-agent.  This option will cause
.B x400pmib
to run as an SNMP master agent.
Do not use this option.  Use a complete master agent and run
.B x400pmib
as an AgentX sub-agent.
This
.B -M
option is for compatiblity with NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.IP ""
Note that recent NET-SNMP master agents,
.BR snmpd (8),
use this option to specify the directories which will be searched for MIBs in
a fashion similar to the
.B MIBDIRS
environment variable.
.\"
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--mibdirs\fP \fIMIBDIRS\fP
.\"
.TP
\fB-x\fP, \fB--agentx-socket\fP [\fISOCKET\fP]
Specifies the AgentX socket,
.IR  SOCKET ,
to which the agent will attempt to connect as an AgentX sub-agent.  This option
implies AgentX operation and overrides the
.B -M
switch.
This
.B -x
switch is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8)
and
NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.\"
.SS UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP Agent Options
.PP
The following options are compatible with NET-SNMP and UCD-SNMP agents, and in
particular,
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--log-addresses\fP
Log addresses accessing the SNMP agent.
This
.B -a
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-A\fP, \fB--append\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
truncates existing log files when they are opened.  This option causes
.B x400pmib
to append to existing log files instead of truncating them when opened.
This
.B -A
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--config-file\fP \fICONFIGFILE\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
reads the default configuration file provided for the agent (the default is
.RB \(lq x400pMIB.conf \(rq
in the SNMP configuration directory (usually
.RB \(lq /etc/snmp \(rq).
This option causes the full pathname
.I CONFIGFILE
to be used as the configuration file instead.
This
.B -c
option is provide for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--config-only\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
reads some files automatically when the SNMP library is configured.  This
option causes
.B x400pmib
to only read configuration files optionally specified with the
.B -c
option.  If no configuration file is specified with the
.B -c
option, no configuration files will be read when this option is specified.
That is, all configuration values will be set to their default values.
This
.B -C
option is provide for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--dump\fP
Dump send and received UDP SNMP packets.
This
.B -d
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-g\fP, \fB--gid\fP, \fB--groupid\fP \fIGID\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
runs with the real user and group id of the invoking process unless the
executable is setuid or setgid in the filesystem.  This option causes
.BR x400pmib ,
after opening ports and files, to downgrade to group id,
.IR GID .
This option is effective both when
.B x400pmib
is run in the foreground and as a daemon process.
This
.B -g
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-I\fP, \fB--initialize\fP [\fB-\fP][\fIMODULE\fP[\fB,\fP\fIMODULE\fP]*]
Specifies which moudles should or should not be initialized when the agent
starts up.  If the comma-separated list of
.IR MODULE s
is preceded by a '-', the
.IR MODULE s
specified represent the modules that should not be initialized when the agent
starts up; otherwise,
the
.IR MODULES s
specified represent the modules that should be initialized when the agent
starts up.
Note that the use of this option is only necessary if
.B x400pmib
runs as a master agent.
This
.B -I
option is provided for compatibility with the UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP master
agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--logfile\fP [\fILOGFILE\fP]
Output warnings, errors and messages to the log file,
.IR LOGFILE .
By default,
.I LOGFILE
is
.RB \(lq /var/log/snmpd.log \(rq.
This
.B -l
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--name\fP \fINAME\fP
Specifies an alternative application name (which will affect the configuration
files and persistent data loaded).  By default this will be
.IR x400pmib ,
regardless of the name of the actual binary executable or path to the
executable (i.e. symbolic link).
This
.B -n
option is provided for compatibility with the NET-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
This option should not be necessary.
.\"
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--port\fP \fIPORTNUM\fP
Run on port number
.I PORTNUM
instead of the default,
.BR 161 .
This
.B -p
option is provided for compatibility with UCD-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
Note that recent NET-SNMP master agents use the
.B -p
option for specifying a
.IR PIDFILE ;
on these agents, the port is specified by encoding it into the address format
instead of using a command line option.
.IP ""
For compatiblity with both UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP master agents, if the
argument to this option is a number from 1 to 16383, the argument will be
interpreted as a port number,
.IR PORTNUM .
If the value is not a number and corresponds to a path to a file which can be
created or written by the aget, the agent will interpret the argument as a
process identifier file,
.IR PIDFILE .
.\"
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--pidfile\fP \fIPIDFILE\fP
When
.B x400pmib
runs as a daemon (the default),
.I PIDFILE
is the full path to the file to which the daemon process id is written.  This
assists System V initscripts by helping them locate running daemons to
terminate when shutting down subsystems.   The default pidfile, unless
overridden by this option, is
.BR /var/run/x400pmib.pid .
This
.B -P
option is provided for compatibility with the UCD-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
Note that recent versions of the NET-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8),
use the
.B -p
option (lowercase instead of uppercase 'p') for this purpose.  UCD-SNMP master
agents use the
.B -p
option to specify port numbers.  The recent NET-SNMP agents encode the port
number into the address specification for command line option and non-option
address arguments.
.\"
.TP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--noroot\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
expects to run with super-user privilege and will terminate if permission
errors occur when opening sockets or files, even if proceding is possible.
When this option is specified,
.B x400pmib
does not expect to run with super-user privilege and will not terminate if
permission errors occur when opening sockets or files, providing that the
agent can still proceed and function.
This
.B -r
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--syslog\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
logs to
.I stderr
and lets the SNMP library decide from configuration where standard error is
redirected.  This option causes
.B x400pmib
to log warnnings, errors and messages to the system logs.
This
.B -s
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--transport\fR [\fITRANSPORT\fP]
Specifies or resets the default transport mapping for the AgentX sub-agent.
When the
.I TRANSPORT
argument is not specified, the transport reverts to the default (UNIX
transport).
When specified,
.I TRANSPORT
must be one of the following transport names:
.RS
.TP
.B unix
UNIX domain socket of the SOCK_STREAM variety.
.PD 0
.TP
.B tcp
TCP socket of the SOCK_STREAM variety.
.TP
.B udp
UDP socket of the SOCK_DGRAM variety.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
This
.B -T
option is provided for compatibiltiy with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-u\fP, \fB--uid\fP, \fB--userid\fP \fIUID\fP
Normally
.B x400pmib
runs with the real user and group id of the invoking process unless th
executable is setuid or setgid in the filesystem.  This option causes
.BR x400pmib ,
after opening ports and files, to downgrade to user id,
.IR UID .
This option is effective both when
.B x400pmib
is run in the foreground and as a daemon process.
This
.B -u
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-U\fP, \fB--dont-remove-pidfile\fP
By default, when the daemon shuts down and a
.I PIDFILE
has been specified with the
.B -p
option, or a defualt
.I PIDFILE
is being used, the
.I PIDFILE
is removed before the daemon exits.
This
.B -U
option specifies that the master agent or AgentX sub-agent is not to remove
its
.I PIDFILE
when shutting down.
This
.B -U
option is provided for compatibility wtih the NET-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
This option should not be necessary, and will often cause Linux System V init
scripts to erroneously report that the daemon is dead but is pidfile exists as
though the daemon exited abnormally.
.\"
.TP
\fB-X\fP, \fB--agentx\fP
Run as an AgentX sub-agent rather than an SNMP master agent.
Note that the default behaviour of
.I x400pmib
is to run as an AgentX sub-agent.  Therefore, this option has no effect unless
the
.B -M
option is also specified on the same command line.
This
.B -X
option is provided for compatibility with UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP master agent,
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.SS X400PMIB Subagent Options
.PP
The following options are specific to the X400PMIB sub-agent.
.\"
.TP
\fB-k\fP, \fB--keep-open\fP
By default,
.B x400pmib
will close open files and Streams between requests, causing them to be
reopened on then next request.  This is less intrusive on the STREAMS
subsystem, but is also less efficient if many closely spaced requests are
issued.  This option causes
.B x400pmib
to keep Streams and files open between requests.
Note that even with this option in effect,
.B x400pmib
can be made to close Streams and files by sending it a
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal.
.\"
.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--sysctl-file\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
When system controls are altered by the agent in such a fashion that the new
settings must persist between system reboots,
.I FILENAME
specifies the file to which the prevailing values of system controls will be
written when the agent terminates.  Entries will be written to this file in
a format suitable for use by
.BR sysctl (8)
with the
.B -p
option.
The default is the system default system
control configuration
file,
.BR "/etc/strchan.conf" .
.\"
.TP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--agent-alarms\fP
By default,
.B x400pmib
allows the agent library to use and intercept
.RI { SIGALRM }
signals.  When this option is set, the agent informs the SNMP library that
the agent will use and intercept
.RI { SIGALRM }
signals and that the SNMP library must use
.BR select (2)
timeouts to effect timers.
Depending on the specific version and generation of SNMP library (whether
ucd-snmp or net-snmp and the version), one or the other might work better.
See
.BR snmp_select_info (3)
and
.BR snmp_alarm (3)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\"\fB-d\fP, \fB--directory\fP \fIDIRECTORY\fP
.\"Specifies a directory to contain output and error logs.  The default is to
.\"serach for
.\".RB \(lq /var/adm/strchan \(rq
.\"and then
.\".RB \(lq /var/log/strchan .\(rq
.\"
.\".TP
.\"\fB-b\fP, \fB--basename\fP \fIBASENAME\fP
.\"Specifiy the log file basename.  The default is
.\".RB \(lq x400pmib .\(rq
.\"
.\".TP
.\"\fB-o\fP, \fB--outfile\fP \fIOUTFILE\fP
.\"Specify the log file output name.  When run as a daemon, the default is
.\".RI \(lq base-name . mm-dd ,\(rq
.\"where
.\".I mm-dd
.\"is the current month and day of month.  When run in the foreground, the
.\"default is ignored and all output is to
.\".IR stdout .
.\"When specified, standard output is redirected to the specified file regardless
.\"of whether
.\".B x400pmib
.\"is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.\"
.\".TP
.\"\fB-e\fP, \fB--errfile\fP \fIERRFILE\fP
.\"Specify the error file output name.  When run as a daemon, the default is
.\".RI \(lq /dev/null \(rq
.\"and all errors are logged to
.\".BR syslogd (8).
.\"When run in the foreground, the default is ignored and all errors are logged
.\"to
.\".IR stderr .
.\"When specified, standard error is redirected to the specified file regardless
.\"of whether
.\".B x400pmib
.\"is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.\"
.SS Command Options
.PP
Command options invoke alternate behaviour of the
.B x400pmib
daemon, as a command, such as displaying information and exiting.  When the
following command options are encountered during option processing,
.B x400pmib
invokes the appropriate command function and then exits.  No further
processing of options or arguments is performed and no agent actions are
taken.  Note that all options specified following the comand option are
ignored.
.\"
.TP
\fB-H\fP, \fB--help-directives\fP
When this option is encountered during option processing,
.B x400pmib
outputs a list of configuration file directives that are understood by the
agent and then exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are
taken.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
This
.B -H
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8)
and
NET-SNMP autogenerated subagents.
.\"
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP
When this option is encountered during option processing,
.B x400pmib
prints usage information to
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are
taken.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.\"
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered during option processing,
.B x400pmib
prints version information to
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are
taken.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
This
.B -v
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
(Normally for OpenSS7 programs, the
.B -V
short option is used for version, but this conflicts with the same option
which provides verbose output for the
.BR snmpd (8)
daemon.)
.\"
.TP
\fB-y\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered during option processing,
.B x400pmib
prints copying information to
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are
taken.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
(Normally for OpenSS7 programs, the
.B -C
short option is used for copying, but this conflicts with the same option
which provides suppression of automatic configuration files for the
.BR snmpd (8)
daemon.)
.\"
.\"
.SS General Options
.PP
General options applicable to all commands are as follows:
.\"
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP, \fB--quick\fP
Specifies that the call is interested only in the return code and error
diagnostics and that normal output should be suppressed.  The default
verbosity level if this option is not specified is one
.RB ( 1 ).
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
This
.B -q
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
Under UCD-SNMP this option does not fully suppress normal output but
abbreviates the output into a form more suitable for machine processing.
.\"
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
This
.B -d
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.
If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This
option can be repeated.  The default verbosity level if this option is not
specified is one
.RB ( 1 ).
For example,
.B -VVVV
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 5 .
This
.B -V
option is provided for compatibility with
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH "MIB FORMAT"
.PP
The
.I OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB
(1.3.6.1.4.1.29591.1.1.10)
implements the following tables, rows and columns:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
 (1.3.6.1.4.1.29591.1.1.10) x400pMIB
 +--(1) x400pObjects
    +--(1) x400pTables
       |--(1) x400pSync
       |  +--(1) x400pSyncTable
       |     +--(1) x400pSyncEntry
       |        |--( 1) x400pSyncGroup
       |        |--( 2) x400pSyncIndex
       |        |--( 3) x400pSyncSpanId
       |        +--( 4) x400pSyncRowStatus
       |
       +--(2) x400pCard
          +--(1) x400pCardTable
             +--(1) x400pCardEntry
                |--( 1) x400pCardIndex
                |--( 2) x400pCardType
                |--( 3) x400pCardIdentifier
                |--( 4) x400pCardRevision
                |--( 5) x400pChipType
                |--( 6) x400pChipRevision
                |--( 7) x400pPciBus
                |--( 8) x400pPciSlot
                |--( 9) x400pPciIrq
                |--(10) x400pCardSpanType
                |--(11) x400pCardMode
                |--(12) x400pCardSyncMaster
                |--(13) x400pCardSyncSource
                |--(14) x400pCardSyncGroup
                |--(15) x400pCardAdministrativeState
                |--(16) x400pCardOperationalState
                |--(17) x400pCardUsageState
                |--(18) x400pCardAlarmStatus
                |--(19) x400pCardProceduralStatus
                |--(20) x400pCardAvailabilityStatus
                |--(21) x400pCardControlStatus
                |--(22) x400pCardUnknownStatus
                |--(23) x400pCardSyncSpanId
                +--(24) x400pCardSyncTransitions
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "x400pSyncTable \fR.1.1.1.1.1"
.PP
This table identifies and defines the synchronization groups into which X400P
cards can be placed.
.PP
The X400P synchronization table is a table of synchronization groups.
Equipped X400P cards that are configured for automatic synchronzation are
assigned to a synchronization group.
.PP
Each entry in the synchronization table represents a synchronization source to
be used for automatic synchronization within each group in the order of the
index.  Rows may be created and deleted explicitly by management stations.
Rows may be deleted implicitly as a part of system operation when a card is
disassociated with a synchroniation group.
.TP
.BR x400pSyncGroup " .1
Provides an identification and index of the synchronization group defined by
a group of conceptual rows.
.sp
Specifies the group number of the entry.  A synchronization group is a group
of cards which share a common timing bus.  Membership in the group is the
cards which have an synchronization group value equal to this index and a
synchronization source setting of
.IR syncAuto .
.TP
.BR x400pSyncIndex " .2
Provides an identification and index of each entry belonging to a
synchronization group.  This is also the priority of the entry within the
group.
.sp
Specifies the index of the entry and the priority at which the entry will be
used for synchronization of the card.  Index value 1 is the highest priority
and index value 8 is the lowest priority.
.TP
.BR x400pSyncSpanId " .3
Provides an identification of the X400P card and span to which the entry
applies.
.sp
Specifies the card and span to be used as a card synchronization source at the
priority of the corresponding index.  Cards 1 through 16 and spans 1 through 4
can be specified in accordance with the
.B X400pSpanId
textual convention.  However, the card number specified must belong to the
same synchronization group as the indexed group.  That is, the card must have
its synchronization group set to the index of this entry, and the card
synchronization source must be set to
.IR syncAuto .
.TP
.BR x400pSyncRowStatus " .4
Provides a mechanism whereby management stations may create or delete rows in
this table.
.sp
Rows may be created or deleted explicitly by management stations or implicitly
as a part of system oepration.  When a card is removed from a synchronization
group (by having its sychronization group number changed or having its
synchronization source set to other than
.IR syncAuto ),
the system may automatically delete rows from this table.
.\"
.SS "x400pCardTable \fR.1.1.2.1.1"
.PP
This table identifiers and defines all of the management information
associated with X400P cards.
.PP
The X400P Card Table provides an entry for each of the equipped X400P cards in
the system."
.PP
Rows are neither created nor deleted explicity by mangement stations but are
present inherently as a part of system operation.  Each entry in the table
corresponds to an existing and installed X400P card.
.TP
.BR x400pCardIndex " .1
Provides an identification and index of the X400P card defined by a conceptual
row in the table.
.TP
.BR x400pCardType " .2
Provides the X400P card type.  This can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIplxDevBrd\fP\(em'u
.I none
unknown or unspecified;
.PD 0
.TP
.I plx9030
ancient PLX 9030 prototype board;
.TP
.I plxDevBrd
ancient PLX 9030 development board;
.TP
.I x400p
an old Digium X400P card (T1 or E1);
.TP
.I e400p
an old Digium E400P card (E1 only);
.TP
.I t400p
an old Digium T400P card (T1 only);
.TP
.I x400p-ss7
an old Digium X400P-SS7 card (T1 or E1);
.TP
.I e400p-ss7
an old Digium E400P-SS7 card (E1 only);
.TP
.I t400p-ss7
an old Digium T400P-SS7 card (T1 only);
.TP
.I v400p
an older Varion V400PE/T card (E1 or T1);
.TP
.I v400pe
an older Varion V400PE card (E1 only);
.TP
.I v400pt
an older Varion V400PT card (T1 only);
.TP
.I v401pe
a recent Varion V401PE card (E1 or T1);
.TP
.I v401pt
a recent Varian V401PT card (E1 or T1).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pCardIdentifier " .3
Provides the X400P card identifier (stored in EEPROM).
.TP
.BR x400pCardRevision " .4
Provides the revision letter of the card.
.TP
.BR x400pChipType " .5
Provides the Dallas frame chip type.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIds21554\fP\(em'u
.I none
unknown or unspecified;
.PD 0
.TP
.I ds2152
4 x DS2152 T1 chips;
.TP
.I ds21352
DS21352 T1 chip;
.TP
.I ds21552
DS21552 T1 chip;
.TP
.I ds2154
4 x DS2154 E1 chips;
.TP
.I ds21354
DS21354 E1 chip;
.TP
.I ds21554
DS21554 E1 chip;
.TP
.I ds2155
4 x DS2155 E1/T1/J1 chip;
.TP
.I ds2156
4 x DS2156 E1/T1/J1 chip.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pChipRevision " .6
Provides the revision letter of the Dallas framer chip.
.TP
.BR x400pPciBus " .7
Provides the PCI bus in which the card is installed.
.TP
.BR x400pPciSlot " .8
Provides the PCI bus slot in which the card is installed.
.TP
.BR x400pPciIrq " .9
Provides the PCI IRQ assigned to the card.
.TP
.BR x400pCardSpanType " .10
Identifies the type of spans normally supported by the card.  Some cards can
support multiple spans; some are dedicated to T1/J1 or E1.
.RS
.TP
.I none
unknown or unspecified;
.PD 0
.TP
.I t1
T1 chip and card;
.TP
.I e1
E1 chip and card;
.TP
.I j1
T1 chip and card in J1 mode.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pCardMode "  .11
Specifies the loopback mode for the entire card.
.RS
.TP
.I remoteLoopback
RSER is looped back on TSER for all spans; that is, all received bits are
looped back to the transmit between the elastic store and the system bus.
This is equivalent to a per-span payload loopback, but is performed through
the elastic store and on a card basis.
.TP
.I localLoopback
RxBuf is driven by TxBuf; that is, all transmitted data bits are passed to the
corresponding receive data bits between the elastic store and the system bus.
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pCardSyncMaster " .12
Specifies whether the card is a slave or a master on the external timing bus.
The value can be one of:
.RS
.TP
.I slave
The external timing bus may be used as a synchronization source for the card
by setting the card synchronization source to
.IR syncExtern .
Spans that use the external timing source should have their span clocking set to
.IR slave .
.TP
.I master
The card drives the external timing bus and the synchronization source may not
also be set to
.IR syncExtern .
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pCardSyncSource " .13
Specifies the synchronization source for the entire card (the synchronization
applied to the TCLK pin on all spans).  The synchronization source may be one
of:
.RS
.TP
.I syncSelf
The internal clock will be used as a synchronization source for the card.
.TP
.I sync1, sync2, sync3, sync4
The corresponding span RCLK output will be used as the TCLK input for all spans on the card.
.TP
.I syncExtern
The TCLK input for all spans will be taken from the external timing bus.
.TP
.I syncAuto
The driver will use the spans specified in the
.B x400pSyncTable
table for the card as synchronization sources.
.RE
.TP
.BR x400pCardSyncGroup " .14
Specifies the synchronization group to which this card belongs.  This value is
only significant when the synchronization source is set to
.IR syncAuto .
A synchronization group is a group of cards, including the current card in the
set, that are connected together with a timing cable and therefore share the
same timing bus.  The order of cards and spans that will be used for timing
are specified against the synchronization group that has an group index of the
same value as this column.
.TP
.BR x400pCardAdministrativeState " .15
Provides the administrative state of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B AdministrativeState
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardOperationalState " .16
Provides the operational state of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B OperationalState
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardUsageState " .17
Provides the usage state of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B UsageState
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardAlarmStatus " .18
Provides the alarm status of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B AlarmStatus
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardProceduralStatus " .19
Provides the procedural status of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B ProceduralStatus
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardAvailabilityStatus " .20
Provides the availability status of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B AvailabilityStatus
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardControlStatus " .21
Provides the control status of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B ControlStatus
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardUnknownStatus " .22
Provides the unknown status of the card following TMN
.[
x.721
.]
conventions, and the 
.B UnknownStatus
textual convention of the
.I OPENSS7-TMN-TC
module.
.TP
.BR x400pCardSyncSpanId " .23
Indicates which card and span is being used as the current synchronization
source for the indexed card.  When the synchronization source is set to
.I syncSelf
or
.IR syncExtern ,
this value will be the null octet string.  When
the synchronization source is set to
.IR sync1 ,
.IR sync2 ,
.IR sync3 ,
or
.IR sync4 ,
the value will always ben the same as the identifier of span 1, 2, 3 or 4,
respectively, for the indexed card.  When the synchronization source is set to
.IR syncAuto ,
the value reflectes the identifier of the span currently providing the
synchronization source, or the null octet string if no span is providing the
synchroniation source.
.TP
.BR x400pCardSyncTransitions " .24
Indicates the number of times since the last discontinuity that the
synchronization span has transitioned.  .\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.RB ( 1 )
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.I stderr
or the log file if
.I stderr
is redirected to a log file; two
.RB ( 2 )
indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is
printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
Errors may result form inadequate permissions, inability to open the
.BR sad (4)
driver or push the
.BR sc (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The following environment variables have an effect on the behaviour of the
.B x400pmib
agent:
.TP
.B SNMPCONFPATH
When this environment variable is exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
the
.BR read_config_files ()
function will look for configuration and persistent data files in the paths
specified in the exported envirnoment variable (separated by colons).
If this variable is not exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
the
.BR read_config_files ()
function will look for configuration and persistent data in the default
configuration and persistent data directories (in that order).
Note that configuration and persistent data will not be read when the
.B -C
option is secified, unless the configuration data and persistent data files
are also listed using the
.B -c
option.
.TP
.B SNMP_PERSISTENT_FILE
When this environment variable is exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
the
.BR read_config ()
functions will look for a peristent data file in the file specified in the
value of the
.B SNMP_PERSISTENT_FILE
environment variable.  If this variable is not exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
the
.BR read_config ()
functions will look for a persistent data in the file "x400pMIB.conf" in the
default persistent directory.
Note that persistent data will not be read when the
.B -C
option is specified, unless the persistent data file is also listed using the
.B -c
option.
.TP
.B HOME
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
this environment variable specifies the home directory of the real user
associated with the executing process.  When the "$HOME/snmp/mibs" directory
exists, it will be added to the default MIB directories searched.
If this variable is not exported, no such directory is added unless it is
explicity included in the the
.B MIBDIRS
evironment variable.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not require MIBs to be loaded, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.TP
.B MIBDIRS
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
this environment variable specifies the directories or directories in
addition to the default directories (when prefixed with a '+'), that will be
searched for MIBs.  If this variable is not exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
only the default directories (or premib defined default directories) will be
loaded.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not require MIBs to be loaded, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.TP
.B MIBS
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
this environment variable specifies the MIBs or MIBs in addition to the
default MIBs (when prefixed with a '+') or all MIBs (when "all" is specified),
that will be loaded.  If this variable is not exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
only the default MIBs (or premib defined default MIBs) will be loaded.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not require MIBs to be loaded, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.TP
.B MIBFILES
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
this environment variable specifies MIB files or MIB files in addition to the
default MIB files (when prefixed with a '+'), that will be loaded.  If this
variable is not exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
only the default MIB files will be loaded.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not require MIBs to be loaded, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.TP
.B PREFIX
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
this environment varibale specifies an OID in numbers an dots notation that
specifies the prefix of the MIB tree to be loaded.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not require MIBs to be loaded, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.TP
.B SUFFIX
When exported to
.BR x400pmib ,
regardless of its contents,
this variable will cause only suffixes of OIDs to be output.  Otherwise, the
default is to output complete OIDs.
The
.BR x400pmib
daemon does not print OIDs except for debugging, and for the most part this
environment variable is ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B x400pmib
AgentX sub-agent requires the
.BR x400p_mx (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.  If the driver is not available, the
.B x400pmib
command will not be successful.  See
.BR x400p_mx (4)
for more information.
.PP
.B x400pmib
is normally invoked from the
.B /etc/init.d/strchan
init script when the presence of an SNMP master agent providing an AgentX interface
on
.IR /var/agentx/master ,
or
.IR localhost : 705
is detected.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B x400pmib
is implemented using a subset of the UCD-SNMP application programming
interfaces which are also provided in recent NET-SNMP releases (called the
old-API).  This implementation maintains compatibility across as many
distributions of NET-SNMP as possible.  Where additional NET-SNMP capabilities
are present, they are used in support of option compatibility with recent
NET-SNMP master SNMP agents, such as
.BR snmpd (8).
Consult the NET-SNMP documentation on your specific distribution for more
information.
.PP
.B x400pmib
is implemented and recommended to be run as an AgentX sub-agent to a running
.BR snmpd (8)
configured for master SNMP agent operation and supporting the AgentX
.[
agentx
.]
interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR x400p_mx (4)
.B x400pmib
uses the
.BR x400p_mx (4)
driver to provide information and control of X400P cards and synchronization
groups.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MODULES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/x400pmib
contains the
.B x400pmib
command.
.PP
The
.B x400pmib
agent checks for the existence of and parses the following files:
.TP
.B /etc/snmp/snmp.conf
Common configuration file for the agent and applications.  See
.BR snmp.conf (5)
for more information.
.TP
.BR /etc/snmp/x400pMIB.conf ", " /etc/snmp/x400pMIB.local.conf
Provides the
.B x400pmib
agent-specific configuration.  See
.BR snmpd.conf (5)
for more information.  These files are optional and may be used to configure
access control, trap generation, subagent protocols and more.  Also, the agent
will read any files with the names
.IR x400pMIB.conf " or " x400pMIB.local.conf
in a colon separated path specified in the
.B SNMPCONFPATH
environment variable.
.TP
.B /usr/share/snmp/mibs/
The aggent will also load all files in this directory as MIBs.  It will not,
however, load an file that beings with a '.' or descend into subdirectories.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR snmp (5),
.BR snmpd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B x400pmib
has no known bugs.  All bugs are unknown and have yet to be discovered.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B x400pmib
implements the
.I OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB
SNMPv2 management information base which provides SNMPv2c or SNMPv3 management
of the X400P Multiplex driver.  The
.I OPENSS7-X400P-MX-MIB
is an
.B OpenSS7
project specific MIB, but it is suitably generic to provide SNMP management of
most X400P driver implementations.
.PP
The
.B x400pmib
executable is most suitable as an AgentX sub-agent.  The program uses the
facilities of the UCD-SNMP or NET-SNMP packages and libraries found on almost
Linux system distributions.
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although implemented using the UCD-SNMP application programming interfaces and
UCD-SNMP or NET-SNMP libraries,
.B x400pmib
is suitable as a standalone AgentX
.[
AgentX
.]
sub-agent, and does not require that the UCD-SNMP or NET-SNMP master SNMP agent
be running (some other master agent listening on a suitable port or path
supporting the AgentX
.[
AgentX
.]
protocol will suffice).
.IP \(em
The options
.BR -D ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -H ,
.BR -L ,
.BR -M ,
.BR -x ,
are provided for compatibility with NET-SNMP autogenerated AgentX sub-agents.
The long versions of these options are not documented for NET-SNMP
autogenerated AgentX sub-agents.
.IP \(em
The options
.BR -A ,
.BR -a ,
.BR -C ,
.BR -c ,
.BR -D ,
.BR -d ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -H ,
.BR -h ,
.BR -I ,
.BR -L ,
.BR -l ,
.BR -M ,
.BR -P ,
.BR -p ,
.BR -q ,
.BR -r ,
.BR -s ,
.BR -T ,
.BR -u ,
.BR -V ,
.BR -v ,
.BR -X ,
.BR -x ,
are provided for compatibility with NET-SNMP and UCD-SNMP master SNMP agents,
and in particular,
.BR snmpd (8).
The long versions of these options are not documented for NET-SNMP or UCD-SNMP
master SNMP agents.
.IP \(em
The options
.BR -A ,
.BR -a ,
.BR -C ,
.BR -c ,
.BR -D ,
.BR -d ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -g ,
.BR -H ,
.BR -h ,
.BR -I ,
.BR -L ,
.BR -l ,
.BR -M ,
.BR -m ,
.BR -n ,
.BR -p ,
.BR -q ,
.BR -r ,
.BR -U ,
.BR -u ,
.BR -V ,
.BR -v ,
.BR -X ,
.BR -x ,
are provided for compatibility with NET-SNMP master SNMP agents,
and in particular,
.BR snmpd (8).
The long version of these options, with the exception of
.BR --help ,
.BR --version ,
are not documented for NET-SNMP master SNMP agents.
.BR
.IP \(em
UCD-SNMP and NET-SNMP agents and autogenerated subagents do not normally
provide long options.  All OpenSS7 agents provide long options for all short
options.
.IP \(em
Options
.B --help
and
.B --version
are provided for compatibilty with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying  ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B x400pmib
conforms to SNMPv1, SNMPv2,
.[
rfc2578
.]
.[
rfc2579
.]
.[
rfc2580
.]
SNMPv2c, SNMPv3 and AgentX.
.[
agentx
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B x400pmib
is provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.B x400pmib
was initially released in version
.B 0.9.2.4
of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
