'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: gdmo.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/10 19:41:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:41:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: gdmo.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/10 19:41:06  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH GDMO 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Adminstrative Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B gdmo
\- parse and print GDMO files
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
\fBgdmo\fP\ [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBgdmo\fP\ [\fIoptions\fP]
[{\fB-f\fP|\fB--filename\fP}\ \fIFILENAME\fP]
[{\fB-o\fP|\fB--outfile\fP}\ \fIOUTFILE\fP]
[{\fB-D\fP|\fB--debug\fP}\ [\fIERRFILE\fP]]
.HP 12
\fBgdmo\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP 12
\fBgdmo\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP 12
\fBgdmo\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B gdmo
is a utility program that can be used to parse, validate and pretty print GDMO MIBs.
.[
x722
.]
The
.B gdmo
utility program is intended to be compatible with XOM
.[
xom
.]
and XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
The following general purpose options are provided:
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--filename\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
Specifies the input filename,
.IR FILENAME .
When the input file is not specified, the default input for the program is
.BR stdin .
.TP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--outfile\fP \fIOUTFILE\fP
Specifies the output filename,
.IR OUTFILE .
When the output file is not specified, the default output file for the program
is
.BR stdout .
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIERRFILE\fP]
Specifies that copious debugging information should also be printed to the
error file,
.IR ERRFILE ,
or if
.I ERRFILE
is not specified,
.BR stderr .
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Increases or sets to
.IR LEVEL
the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Specifies that normal output (to
.BR stdout " and " stderr )
is to be suppressed.
(Equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .)
.PP
The following command level options are provided:
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is ecnountered, print usage information to
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.B stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, print copyright and copying information to
.B stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR asn1 (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B gdmo
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B gdmo
is compatible with XOM
.[
xom
.]
and XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B gdmo
first appeared in
.B @PACKAGE@
version
.BR 0.9.2.4 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
