'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: osinetd.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-05-03 13:23:34 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 13:23:34 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: osinetd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-05-03 13:23:34  brian
.\" - added strx25 sub-package and package updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:01:58  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/12/15 20:16:46  brian
.\" - added new mib files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH OSINETD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Adminstrative Commands"
.SH NAME
.B osinetd
\- OSI networking daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.BI "osinetd [" options ]
.HP
\fBosinetd\fP {\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBosinetd\fP {\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBosinetd\fP {\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP}
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B osinetd
is a user-space C-language program that can be run in the background as a
daemon process to establish, initialize, configure and collect statistics and
events from
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@ .
But, see
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are
mutually exclusive options:
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--nodaemon\fP
Specifies that the
.B ss7statsd
is to run in the foreground with output to standard out and errors to standard
error (unless overridden by options).  This is the default when \fB--debug\fP
is specified.  Otherwise,
.B ss7statsd
normally closes standard input, output and error and places itself in the
background as a daemon process, reading configuraiton from the configuration
file, sending output to the output file, and sending errors to the log file.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.SS Configuration Options
.PP
.SS Daemon Options
.PP
The following options are useful in daemon mode to redirect standard output to
an output file and standard error to a log file.
.TP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--interval\fP \fIINTERVAL\fP
.TP
\fB-O\fP, \fB--outpdir\fP \fIDIRECTORY\fP
When run in the daemon mode, specifies the directory,
.IR DIRECTORY ,
in which output and error files will be opened.  The default output directory is
.IR \(lq /var/tmp/ss7statsd \(rq.
.TP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--outfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
When run in daemon mode, specifies the output filename,
.IR FILENAME .
The default output filename is the process name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .out \(rq
suffix.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--logfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
When run in daemon mode, specifies the errors filename,
.IR FILENAME .
The default errors filename is the process name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .err \(rq
suffix.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--cfgfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
Not implemented.
.SS General Options
.PP
The following are general options controlling the output of the utilily and
can be applied to the command in any mode:
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Specifies that the caller is interested only  in the return code and that
normal output should be suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP \fILEVEL\fP
Increases or set the debugging level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the debugging level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the debuggin level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -ddddd
is equivalent to
.BR --debug = 5 .
The default debugging level is zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP \fILEVEL\fP
Increases or sets the output verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the output verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 5 .
The default output verbosity is one
.RB ( 1 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYSCTLS
.PP
.SS ACSE/Presentation Entity
.TP
.B sys.osinet.acse_presentation.status
Turns the selected Presentation and ACSE entity on or off.  If you turn the
entity status off, the Presentation and ACSE entity is isolated, and data no
longer passes through this entity.  You might want to do this for security or
debugging purposes.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.acse_presentation.max_alter_ctx_size
Sets the maximum size for PDUs accepted by the Presentation and ACSE entity
for an Alter Context (AC) or Alter Context Acknowledgement (ACA) PDU.  This
size only applies when the context management functional unit has been
negoitated for the connection.
.sp
Possible values are 0, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096,
8192, 16384, 32768, 65546.  The default value is 4096.
.SS Session Entity
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.status
Turns the selected session entity on or off.  If you turn the entity status
off, the session entity is isolated, and data no longer passes thorugh the
session entity.  You might want to do this for security or debugging purposes.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.timeout
Defines the time during which a session connection can wait for an accept,
after which the connection aborts.  Specify a value btween 30 and 120
(seconds).  The default is 60 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.max_tsdu_queue
Not implemented.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.initiator_reuse_timeout
If the transport connection can be reused (according to the outcome of the
Propose Reuse of TC protocol negotiation), then when the timeout between the
termination of a session connection and the initiation of another session
connection expires, the associated transport connection is terminated.  This
timeout specifies how long to maintain the transport connection open after the
associated session connection is closed, if the connection was intiiated
locally.  Specify a value between 30 and 1200 (seconds).  The default value is
30 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.acceptor_reuse_timeout
If the transport connection can be reused (according to the outcome fo the
Propose Reuse of TC protocol negotiation), then when the timeout between the
termination of a session connection and the initiation of another session
connection expires, the associated trasnport connection is terminated.  This
timeout specifies how long to maintain the transport connection open after the
associated session connection is closed, the the connection was initiated
remotely.  Specify a value btween 30 and 1200 (seconds), the default value is
30 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.accept_reuse_of_tc
Accepts the resue of a transport connection when proposed by the remote
system.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.propose_reuse_of_tc
Proposes to the peer session entity that the transport connection should be
used again after the specified timeout.  If the peer session entity accepts,
then the transport connection can be reused.  If you choose this option, make
sure that the accept_reuse_of_tc is also set on.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.include_ssap_id_in_ac_spdu
Adds the session service access point identifier to the AC SPDU (Session layer
protocol data unit accept PDU).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.try_to_reuse_tc
Specifies that new connection requests can attempt to reuse a transport
connection to the peer session entity.  If you choose this option, make sure
that the propose_resuse_of_tc is also set on.  The peer session entity must
allow reuse of transport connections.  Ensure that the accept_reuse_of_tcp and
propose_reuse_of_tc are both selected if you choose this option.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.use_trs_expedited_data
Specifies that the transport expedited data service should be used if it is
available.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.protocol_version_1
Protocol version 1 specifies certain length restrictions on PDUs.  At least
version 1 or version 2 must be set.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.protocol_version_2
Protocol version 2 specifies no length restrictions on PDUs.  At least version
1 or version 2 must be set.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.extended_concatentation
Allows the extended concatenation of PDUs and TPUs.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.negotiated_release
Enables or disables the negotiated release functional unit.  When disbled,
this functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.half_duplex
Enables or disables the half-duplex functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.duplex
Enables or disabled the duplex functional unit.  When disbled, this functional
unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.  Disabling of this
function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.expedited_data
Enables or disables the expedited data functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.typed_data
Enables or disables the typed data functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.capability_data
Enables or disables the capability data functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.minor_syncrhonize
Enables or disables the minor synchronize functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.major_synchronize
Enables or disables the major synchronize functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.resynchronize
Enables or disables the resynchronize functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.exceptions
Enables or disables the exceptions functional unit.  When disbled, this
functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.session.activity_management
Enables or disables the activity management functional unit.  When disbled,
this functional unit will not be proposed or accepted during negotiation.
Disabling of this function unit is normally for debugging purposes only.
.SS Transport and CLNS Entity
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.status
Turns the selected transport entity on or off.  If you turn the entity status
off, the transport entity is isolated, and data no longer passes through this
transprot layer.  You might want to do this for security or debuggin purposes.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.max_pdu_size
Specifies the maximum size for a transport PDU.  The actual value is
negotiated between the local and the remote system, the lower value being
accepted.   Specify one of the following values: 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2148,
4096 or 8192.  The default size is 512.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.credit_window
This value is used in the calculation to define the maximum buffer space
allowed for PDUs that can be received before sending an acknowledgement.  The
maximum buffer space is credit_window times the allocation_quantum_size
divided by the negotiated size of PDUs.  Specify a value between 1 and 15.
The default value is 5.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.retransmission_limit
Specifies the maximum number of TPDU retransmission attempts that can be made
before aborting the connection.  Specify a value between 2 and 20.  The
default value is 5.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.retransmission_timer
Specifies the initial time between retransmissions in the case of an error.
The time between retransmissions doubles each time a retransmission attempt
fails.  Specify a value between 1 and 100 (seconds).  The default value is 40
seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.window_timer
Specifies a timer that can be used to keep a connection open if the connection
is inactive.  An acknowledgement PDU is sent when this timer expires, if there
is no activity.  If this is less than the inactivity timer on the remote
system, then the connection remains open.  Specify a value between 1 and 100
(seconds).  The default value is 50 (seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.default_clnp_lifetime
Specifies the maximum lifetime that a CLNP PDU can exist in the network, after
which it is discarded.  Specify a value between 2 and 255 (decaseconds).  The
default value is 50 decaseconds, or 500 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.propose_checksum
Allows checksum to be negotiated if you are initiating a transport class 4
connection.  The use of checksum is negotiated and will only be used if both
the local and remote systems select this option.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.use_extended_formats
Proposes the use of extended formats for PDUs to the remote system.  This is
negotiated and will only be used if both the local and the remote system
select this option.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.disconnect_on_protocol_error
When set, sends a disconnection request TPDU when a protocol error has
occurred.  When unset, it sends an error TPDU or ignores the bad PDU.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.allocation_quantum_size
Used to control credit in terms of buffer space rather than in terms of PDUs
since the PDU size is negotiated.  It is used in conjunction with the Credit
Window parameter.  Specify one of the following values: 128, 256, 512, 1024,
2048, 4096 or 8192.  The default value is 512 octets.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.tidu_size
Since the size of the TSDUs is unlimited, they might need to be divided into
TIDUs, so that the session entity can deal with them.  However, if these TIDUs
are too small, the session control PDUs are also divided.  This TIDU size
specifies the minimum size allowed for a TIDU, where the inimum size is the
specified value * 512 plus 1100.  Even if you set a TIDU size of zero, the
minimum size will be 1100.  Note that this parameter is a default value that
may be overridden by the user of the transport connection at connection time.
Sepcify a value btween 0 and 64.  The default value is 0.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.acknowledgement_timer
Specifies the maximum delay allowed before sending a TPDU acknowledgement in
response to a data TPDU.  This can be used to minimize the number of TPDU
acknoweldgements sent, by sending one acknowledgement for several TPDUs
received.  It should be used in conjunction with the ignore_criteral_for_ack
and ignore_acknowledgement_timer protocol options.  Specify a value between 1
and 100 seconds.  The default value is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.receiving_window
Implements flow control for data passed from the transport layer to the user
of the transport service.  This value defines the maximum number of TSDUs that
can be received and queued internally before invoking flow control.  Specify a
value between 1 and 20.  The default value is 5 TSDUs.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.sending_queue_size
Specifies the limit on the number of data TPDUs waiting to be transmitted or
waiting to be retransmitted if not acknowledged.  Specify a value between 1
and 20.  The default value is 10 TPDUs.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.max_reassemble_size
Specifies the maximum number of CLNP PDUs that can be queued for reassembly.
Any additional PDUs are discarded.  This is only used when the full CLNP
protocol is being used.  Specify a value between 1 and 100 (decapdus).  The
default value is 5 decapdus (50 PDUs).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.control_block_quantum
Specifies the maximum number of segments that can be handled when reassembling
a NSDU.  This is only used when the full CLNP protocol is being used.  Specify
a value between 1 and 100 (decaPDUs).  The default value is 2 decaPDUs (20
PDUs).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.ignore_criteria_for_ack
When set, this delays the sending of a TPDU acknowledgement for the amount of
time specified by the acknowledgement_timer.  The default is unset.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.ignore_acknolwedgement_timer
When set, ignores the acknowledgement_timer and sends PDU acknowledgements
immediately.  The default is set.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.set_checksum_on_spurious_response
When set, if an invaokd TPDU is received (such as data request sent in
response to a connection request), then a checksum is included in the
responding TPDU.  The default is unset.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.ignore_checksum_when_receiving
When set, this ignores the checksum when receiving TPDUs, even if checksum was
negotiated during the connection procedure.  The default is unset.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.clns.send_burst_of_tpdus_as_nudtrq
When set, allows concatenation of TPDUs into a single NSDU.  The default is
unset.
.SS Transport over CONS
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.status
Turns the selected transport entity on or off.  If you turn the transport over
CONS status off, the entity is isolated and data no longer passes through it.
You might want to do this for security or debugging purposes.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.max_pdu_size
Specifies the maximum size a transport PDU is allowed to be on this system.
The actual value is negoitated between the local and the remote system, the
lower value being accpeted.  Specify one of: 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2148, 4096
or 8192.  The default size is 512.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.credit_window
This value is used in the calculation to define the maximum buffer space
allowed for PDUs that can be received before sending an acknowledgment.  The
calculation is the credit_window times the allocation_quantum_size divided by
the negotiated maximum size of TPDUs.  Specify a value between 1 and 15.  The
default value is 5.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.ts1_ts2_timer
Specifies the TS1/TS2 timers (as defined in ISO 8073)
.[
x224
.]
for disconnection of an inactive network connection.  Specify a value between
3 and 12 (decaseconds).  The default value is 6 decaseconds (60 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.t1r_timeout
Specifies the time between trying to resynchronize or reassing the trasnport
connection after a transmission failure.  It is only used when the local
system initiated a class 3 protocol connection.  Specify a value between 3 and
12 (decaseconds).  The default value is 6 decaseconds (60 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.twr_increment
This is used to specify the time to wait for resynchronization or reassignment
of the trasnsport connection after a transmission failure.  It is only used
when the remote system intiated a class 3 connection.  The state value is the
difference between the TTR timer (plus the maximum disconnection wait and the
maximum transmission time) and the TWR timer.  Specify a vlue between 1 and 11
(decaseconds).  The default value is 2 decaseconds (20 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.retransmission_timer
Specifies the initial timer between retransmissions in the case of an error
for transport class 4 connections.  The time between retransmissions doubles
each time a retransmission takes place.  Specify a value beteween 30 and 120
seconds.  The default value is 30 seconds.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.retransmission_limit
Specifies the maximum number of TPDU retransmission attempts that can be made
before aborting the connection.  Specify a value between 2 and 20.  The
default value is 3.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.class_0_only
Specifies that connections always use class 0 protocol which provides basic
transport connection support that can detect errors but not recover from them.
.sp
If no class options are set, class 2 is selected.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.propose_class_3
Means that class 3 is proposed as the preferred class and if the remote system
accepts class 3, the transport connection is established according to class 3
trasnport protocol specifications.  This includes recovery from network
disconnections.
.sp
If both propose_class_3 and propose_class_4 are set, then the class chosen
depends on the remote system.    When the remote system initiates the
connection, the local system accepts the higher class proposed, that is, class
4 is preferred.
.sp
If no class options are set, class 2 is selected.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.propose_class_4
Means that class 4 is proposed as the preferred class and if the remote system
accepts class 4, the transport protocol connection is established according to
class 4 transport protocol specifications.  This includes flow control and
full error control.
.sp
If both propose_class_3 and propose_class_4 are set, then the class chosen
depends on the remote system.    When the remote system initiates the
connection, the local system accepts the higher class proposed, that is, class
4 is preferred.
.sp
If no class options are set, class 2 is selected.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.include_tsap_id_in_cc
Includes the transport service access point identifier in PDUs for operability
with systems that require it.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.null_pid_if_osi
Should be set if you do not want to include the protocol identifier in a
connection request PDU.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.allocation_quantum_size
Used to control credit in terms of buffer space rather than in terms of PDUs
since the PDU size is negotiated.  It is used in conjunction with the Credit
Window parameter.  Specify one of the following values: 128, 256, 512, 1024,
2048, 4096 or 8192.  The default value is 512 octets.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.max_multiplexing_initiator
Specifies the maximum multiplexing for locally initiated transport connections
onto a single network connection.  Specify a value between 1 and 126.  The
default value is 5 connections.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.max_multiplexing_acceptor
Specifies the maximum multiplexing for remotely initiated transport
connections onto a single network connection.  It should be a greater value
thatn the max_multiplexing_initiator control.  Specify a value between 1 and
126.  The default value is 10 connections.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.tidu_size
Since the size of the TSDUs is unlimited, they might need to be divided into
TIDUs, so that the session entity can deal with them.  However, if these TIDUs
are too small, the session control PDUs are also divided.  This TIDU size
specifies the minimum size allowed for a TIDU, where the inimum size is the
specified value * 512 plus 1100.  Even if you set a TIDU size of zero, the
minimum size will be 1100.  Note that this parameter is a default value that
may be overridden by the user of the transport connection at connection time.
Sepcify a value btween 0 and 64.  The default value is 0.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.long_nc_timeout
Specifies the inactivity timer for a network connection when: the local system
is not the initiator of the network connection, and multiplexing is being used
for the network connection.  Specify a value between 3 and 48 (decaseconds).
The default value is 24 decaseconds (240 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.short_nc_timeout
Specifies an inactivity timer for a network connection when: the local system
initiated the network connection, and multiplexing is not being used for the
network connection.  Specify a value between 3 and 6 (decaseconds).  The
default value is 3 decaseconds (30 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.qos_threshold_nfc
Sets a threshold for the use of flow control in the class 2 transport
protocol.  The default value of zero suppresses flow control.  A value of 8
switches flow control on.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.qos_threshold_mpx
Sets a threshold for the use of multiplexing in class 2 trasnport protocol.  A
value of zero suppresses multiplexing.  The default value is 1.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.max_size_nofc
For class 2 transport protocol, specifies a maximum limit for the receiving
queue size where no flow control has been negotiated at this level, since flow
control can be exercised at the TIDU level.  When this limit is exceeded, an
error PDU is generated.  Specify a value between 1 and 100 (2^10 bytes). The
default is 4 kbytes (4096 bytes).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.disconnect_unused_nc
When set, disconnect an inactive network connection to allow it to be
reassigned if a new connection is required.  The default is unset.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.support_network_reset
Set to configure the local system to send an N-RESET when an error occurs and
to take the appropriate action when an N-RESET is received.  If this is set,
and the use_dr_in_case_of_error or use_dr_or_er_in_case_of_error options are
unset, then an N-RESET is sent when an error occurs.  If
support_network_reset, use_dr_in_case_of_error and
use_dr_or_er_in_case_of_eror are all unset, a disconnect request is sent.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.suppress_expedited
When set, prevents expedited data from being proposed or accepted.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.use_dr_in_case_of_error
When set, sends a disconnect request TPDU when an error occurs, according to
the type of error.  Not normally used.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.transport.cons.use_dr_or_er_in_case_of_error
When set, sends a disconnect request or error TPDU when an error occurs.  Not
normally used: some remote systems might require this option.
.SS CONS Entity
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.status
Turns the selected network entity on or off.  If you turn the entity status
off, the CONS entity is isolated, and data no longer passes through it.  You
might want to do this for debugging or security purposes.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.default_x25_packet_size
Specifies the default packet size for an X.25 network connection.  Specify one
of: 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048 or 4096.  The default value is 128
octets.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.max_nsdu_length
Specifies the maximum length allowed for a NSDU.  This value should be greater
than or equal to the maximum PDU size specified for transport.  Specify a
value between 1 and 40 (256 octet chunks).  THe default value is 8 chunks
(2048 octets).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.connection_timer
Specifies the maximum time allowed for establishing a connection.  If the
connection is not established within the specified time, the connection
attempt is aborted.  This timer is used for all version of X.25 networks.
Specify a value between 0 and 60 (decaseconds).  The default value is 30
decaseconds (5 minutes).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.connection_timer_x25_80
Specifies the maximum time allowed for establishing a connection in an X.25/80
(SNDCP) network.  It should be less than or equal to the connection timer
defined above.  If the connection is not established within the specified
time, the connection attempt is aborted.  Specify a value between 0 and 30
(decaseconds).  The default value is 25 decaseconds (250 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.deconnection_timer_x25_80
Specifies the time for completion for disconnecting a network connection, in an
X.25/80 (SNDCP) network.  If the disconnection is not complete within the
specified time, the disconnection is aborted.  Specify a value between 1 and
30 (decaseconds).  The default value is 20 decaseconds (200 seconds).
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.grcb_pool_size
This is used to define the size of the routing table for the network.  It
specifies the maximum number of entries int he general routing information
table.  Specify a value between 0 and 255 (decaentries).  The default value is
3 decaentries (30 entries).  You should not need to change this value, unless
a large number of routes is required.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.rccb_pool_size
This is used to define the routing table for the network.  It specifies the
size of the cache to be used for routes that are currently or frequently used.
Specify a value between 0 and 255 (decaentries).  The default value is 3
decaentries (30 entries).  You should not need to change this value, unless a
large number of routes is required.
.TP
.B sys.osinet.network.cons.recb_pool_size
This is used to define the routing table for the network.  It specifies the
maximum number of routes for each entry (described in the grcb_pool_size
above) in the general routing information table.  Specify a value between 0
and 255 (decaentries).  The default value is 3 decaentries (30 entries).  You
should not need to change this value, unless a large number of routes is
required.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B osinetd
fails, a diagnostic message is printed on standard error and a non-zero exit
status is returned.  If standard error has already been redirected to the log
file, the log file will contain the diagnostic message.
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.BR ( 1 )
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two
.BR ( 2 )
indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is
printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.PP
Also,
.B osinetd
logs notices, warnings and diagnostic error messages under facility
.I daemon
to the system log, regardless of whether it is running in the foreground or as
a daemon.  See
.BR syslog (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Use of a configuration daemon such as
.BR osinetd
that uses configuration files and collects statistics and events from OSI
drivers and modules and then dumps the output to files in specialized formats
is deprecated and no longer the preffered method for operational support of
the OpenSS7 OSI Stack and systems.  An SNMP/CMIP agent that provides
configuration maangement, operational measurement data collection and event
reporting is now the preferred method.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B osinetd
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR cons (4),
.BR clns (4),
.BR otpi (4),
.BR otk6 (4),
.BR OSI (4),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B osinetd
is backward compatibile with previous versions of the uility.  The output
format has not changed over the various versions of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
OSI Stack configuration, statistics collection and event reporting are not
subject to standardization (other than for CMIP applications).  The
.B osinetd
utility conforms to the OpenSS7
Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi (7),
version
.BR 0.9.2 ,
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.BR tpi (7),
version
.BR 2.0.0 ,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the Network Provider Interace (NPI),
.BR npi (7),
version
.BR 2.0.0 .
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B osinetd
originally appeared in the OpenSS7
.BR striso
package in version
.BR 0.9.2 .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package,
.BR @PACKAGE@ ,
in version
.BR @VERSION@ .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
