@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.9 2007/03/02 10:04:54 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/02 10:04:54 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: news.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.9  2007/03/02 10:04:54  brian
@c - updates to common build process and versions for all exported symbols
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.8  2007/02/28 06:31:39  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/02/12 10:41:17  brian
@c - added support for autoconf 2.61
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/01/09 22:21:18  brian
@c - bumped version number for next release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/01/09 11:25:59  brian
@c - final post-release updates
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/08 16:24:36  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/29 02:03:14  brian
@c - mentioned FC5 against 2.6.18 kernel
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/27 23:58:36  brian
@c - added 2.6.18 compatibility
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/16 10:54:59  brian
@c - added new package files
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the second open source release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This release
contains modules and drivers formerly only available with Commercial releases of the @cite{strss7}
package and which are only recently available as open source with the release of this package.

With OpenSS7 Master Package release @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}, the VOIP components were separated from
the @file{strss7} package and placed in this package.  Not all of the VOIP components previously
part of the @file{strss7} package have been strapped into this release.  Components will be
re-validated against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on a module-by-module and driver-by-driver basis.
See @file{TODO} in the release, or @refman{Schedule}, for information about the release schedule.

This is a beta grade release of H.323 for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  It deprecates previous VOIP
component releases from the @file{strss7} package.  Please upgrade to the most current release of
these components before reporting bugs.

This release is a maintenance release providing support for recent distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone package builds on
2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kenels.

@item
The package now looks for other subpackages with a version number as unpacked by separate tarball.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial open source release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.  This release contains modules and drivers formerly only available
with Commercial releases of the @cite{strss7} package and which are only
recently available as open source with the release of this package.

With OpenSS7 Master Package release @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}, the VOIP
components were separated from the @file{strss7} package and placed in this
package.  Not all of the VOIP components previously part of the @file{strss7}
package have been strapped into this release.  Components will be re-validated
against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on a module-by-module and driver-by-driver
basis.  See @file{TODO} in the release, or @refman{Schedule}, for information
about the release schedule.

In this initial release, the major component first available is H.323 call
control.  @manpage{h323(4)} is a @dfn{STREAMS} multiplexing driver that links
@manpage{tcp(4)} or @manpage{sctp(4)} streams to form an H.323 Gatekeeper.
Subsequent releases in 1Q 2007 will include the additional full H.323, SIP-T
and GCP.

This is a beta grade release of H.323 for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  It
deprecates previous VOIP component releases from the @file{strss7} package.
Please upgrade to the most current release of these components before
reporting bugs.

@itemize -
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patch set).
@end itemize

@emph{This is the initial public beta release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.  Please see @file{README-alpha} in the release, or
@refman{Maturity}.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on
production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License Version 2}.
The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM, DSC, and set of binary RPMs and
DEBs.  See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the @command{autoconf}
tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package page}.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070108_3.html}.


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
