@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 02:07:53 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 02:07:53 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: todo.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 02:07:53  brian
@c - updated headers for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/06/23 01:38:31  brian
@c - updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/06/22 00:19:17  brian
@c - mostly documentation updates for release, some netconfig workaround
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/16 10:54:59  brian
@c - added new package files
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

The current plan of the next several months (over the summer of 2007) is to actively move this
package forward.  This consists of the following:

@itemize @bullet

@item
Implementation and testing of MGCP (MGC-side) using the MGI and TCP transport from the
@command{strinet} package.

@item
Implementation and testing of MEGACO/H.248 (MGC-side, binary format) using the MGI and SCTP
transport from the @command{strsctp} package.

@item
Implementation of SIP-T and SIP call control using the CCI and TCP transport from the
@command{strinet} package and later SCTP transport from the @command{strsctp} package.

@item
Perform production testing of MEGACO/H.248 and MGCP against the Veraz iGATE, the Cisco 5400 and the
Sonus Media Gateways.

@item
Rigorous lab and limited field testing of the MGC-side components.

@item
Production deployment in customer's network for 1Q2008.

@end itemize

The order of testing will be MEGACO/H.248 and then SIP-T and SIP followed by MGCP.  Production
public releases of the MGC side of MEGACO/H.248 and SIP-T acan be expected by the end of July 2007.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @minus

@item
Testing.  This package is completely untested.  This remains to be done.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Actually implement all of the package.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Copy all of the VoIP drivers, multiplexers and modules as well as the test programs from the strss7
package and place them here.

Note that this package should load after strss7 (i.e, last).

@emph{*todo*}

@end itemize
