'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: capi.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/17 11:56:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 11:56:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: capi.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:09  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CAPI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ CAPI 2.0 Interface (CAPI)"
.SH NAME
.B CAPI
\- Linux CAPI 2.0 Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/capi.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH CAVEATS
.SH IOCTLS
.SS CAPI_REGISTER		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
This ioctl is used to announce the presence of the application to CAPI
.[
capi20
.]
and set some parameters.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B capi_register_params
structure formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct capi_register_params {
    uint32_t level3cnt;
    uint32_t datablkcnt;
    uint32_t datablklen;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.TP
.I level3cnt
maximum number of simultaneous user data connections.
.TP
.I datablkcnt
maximum number of buffered data messages.
.TP
.I datablklen
maximum size of buffered data messages.
.\".SS CAPI_RELEASE		\" ('C'<<8|0x02) but just close()
.\".SS CAPI_PUT_MESSAGE		\" ('C'<<8|0x03) but just putmsg()
.\".SS CAPI_GET_MESSAGE		\" ('C'<<8|0x04) but just getmsg()

.SS CAPI_GET_MANUFACTURER	\" ('C'<<8|0x06)
This IO control obtains the CAP manufacturer identification.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a buffer of at least 64 bytes.  On successful return, the
.B capi
driver copies the manufacturer name to the buffer as a zero terminated ASCII
character string.
.SS CAPI_GET_VERSION		\" ('C'<<8|0x07)
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B capi_version
structure formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct capi_version {
    uint32_t majorversion;
    uint32_t minorversion;
    uint32_t majormanuversion;
    uint32_t minormanuversion;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.TP
.I majorversion
The CAPI
.[
capi20
.]
major version:
.BR 0x2 .
.TP
.I minorversion
The CAPI
.[
capi20
.]
minor version:
.BR 0x0 .
.TP
.I majormanuversion
The manufacturer-specific major number:
.BR 0x0 .
.TP
.I minormanuversion
The manufacturer-specific minor number:
.BR 0x8 .
.SS CAPI_GET_SERIAL		\" ('C'<<8|0x08)
Retrieves the serial number of the CAPI.
.[
capi20
.]
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a buffer of at least 8 bytes to hold the zero terminated ASCII
character string representing the serial number of up to 7 characters.
.SS CAPI_GET_PROFILE		\" ('C'<<8|0x09)
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B capi_profile
structure formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct capi_profile {
    uint16_t ncontroller;       /* number of installed
                                   controller */
    uint16_t nbchannel;         /* number of B-Channels */
    uint32_t goptions;          /* global options */
    uint32_t support1;          /* B1 protocols support */
    uint32_t support2;          /* B2 protocols support */
    uint32_t support3;          /* B3 protocols support */
    uint32_t reserved[6];       /* reserved */
    uint32_t manu[5];           /* manufacturer specific
                                   information */
} capi_profile;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.TP
.I nocontroller
The number of the controller.  If this field is set to zero (0) on call, the
number of controllers will be returned and nothing else.
.TP
.I nbchannel
The number of B-Channels supported by the controller.
.TP
.I goptions
The global options.
.RS
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_INT
Internal controller supported.
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_EXT
External equipment supported.
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_HANDSET
Handset supported (external equipment must also be set)
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_DTMF
DTMF supported.
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_CHANALLOC
Channel allocationi supported (leased lines).
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_BCHANOPSUPP
Parameter
.I \*(lqB channel operation\*(rq
supported.
.TP
.B CAPI_GOPT_LINTERC
Line Interconnect supported.
.RE
.TP
.I support1
B1 protocols support.
.TP
.I support2
B2 protocols support.
.TP
.I support3
B3 protocols support.
.TP
.I reserved
reserved.
.TP
.I manu
Manufacturer specific information.

.\".SS CAPI_SET_SIGNAL
.\".SS CAPI_WAIT_FOR_SIGNAL

.SS CAPI_MANUFACTURER_CMD	\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.SS CAPI_GET_ERRCODE		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.SS CAPI_INSTALLED		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)

.\".SS CAPI_GET_FLAGS		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.\".SS CAPI_SET_FLAGS		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.\".SS CAPI_CLR_FLAGS		\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.\".SS CAPI_NCCI_OPENCOUNT	\" ('C'<<8|0x01)
.\".SS CAPI_NCCI_GETUNIT	\" ('C'<<8|0x01)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH FILES
.SH VERSIONS
The
.B CAPI
.[
capi20
.]
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is Version 2.0 of the interface.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
