'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:48:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:48:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_BIND_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:48:55  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:04  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_BIND_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_BIND_ACK
\- bind protocol address acknowledgement
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, and its structure is the following:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_bind_ack {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_BIND_ACK */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* length of address */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* offset of address */
    ulong cc_setup_ind;         /* setup indications */
    ulong cc_token_value;       /* setup response token value */
} CC_bind_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the specified call control user entity has been bound to the requested
call control address and that the specified number of connect indications are allowed to be queued by the CCS
provider for the specified network address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_BIND_ACK .
.TP
.I cc_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Is the length of the call control address that was bound.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the M_PCPROTO block where the call control
address begins.
.TP
.I cc_setup_ind
Is the accepted number of setup indications allowed to be outstanding by the
CCS provider for the specified call control address.  If its value is zero (0),
this stream cannot accept
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
messages.  If its value is greater than zero (0), then the CCS user can accept
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
messages up to the value specified in this parameter before having to respond
with a
.BR CC_SETUP_RES "(7) or a " CC_DISCON_REQ
message.
.TP
.I cc_token_value
Conveys the value of the "token" assigned to this stream that can be used by
the CCS user in a
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
primitive to accept a call on this stream.  It is a non-zero value, and is
unique to all streams bound to the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
The following rules apply to the binding of the specified call control address
to the stream:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the cc_addr_length field in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is zero (0), then the CCS provider is to assign a call control address
to the user.
.IP \(em
The CCS provider is to bind the call control address as specified in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.  If the CCS provider cannot bind the specified address, it may
assign another call control address to the user.  It is the call control
user's responsibility to check the call control address returned in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive to see if it is the same as the one requested.
.PP
The following rules apply to negotiating
.I cc_setup_ind
argument:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.I cc_setup_ind
number in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive must be less than or equal to the corresponding requested number as
indicated in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
Only one stream that is bound to the indicated call control address may have a
negotiated accepted number of maximum setup indications greater than zero.  If
a
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive specifies a value greater than zero (0), but another stream has already
bound itself to the given call control address with a value greater than zero
(0),
the CCS provider should assign another protocol address to the user.
.IP \(em
If a stream with
.I cc_setup_ind
number greater than zero is used to accept a call, the stream will be found
busy during the duration of that call and no other streams may be bound to
that call control address with a
.I cc_setup_ind
number greater than zero.  This will prevent more than one stream bound to the
identical call control address from accepting setup indications.
.IP \(em
A stream requesting a
.I cc_setup_ind
number of zero should always be legal.  This indicates to the CCS provider
that the stream is to be used to request call setup only.
.IP \(em
A stream with a negotiated
.I cc_setup_ind
number greater than zero may generate setup requests or accept setup
indications.
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, then the CCS provider must
issue a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the CCS user specifying the error as defined in the description
of the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is in response to a
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive and is valid in the state
.BR CCS_WACK_BREQ .
The new state is
.BR CCS_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
See
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
for protocol specific considerations and rules.
See the specific protocol documentation for formats and rules governing
call control addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
