'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:48:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:48:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:48:55  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:04  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_BIND_REQ
\- bind protocol address request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_bind_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_BIND_REQ */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* length of address */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* offset of address */
    ulong cc_setup_ind;         /* req # of setup inds to be queued */
    ulong cc_bind_flags;        /* bind options flags */
} CC_bind_req_t;

/* Flags associated with CC_BIND_REQ */
#define CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER             0x000000001UL
#define CC_TOKEN_REQUEST                0x000000002UL
#define CC_MANAGEMENT                   0x000000004UL
#define CC_TEST                         0x000000008UL
#define CC_MAINTENANCE                  0x000000010UL
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider bind a CCS user entity to a call
control address (circuit, circuit group) and negotiate the number of setup
indications allowed to be outstanding by the CCS provider for the specified
CCS user entity being bound.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_BIND_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Is the length in bytes of the call control (circuit, circuit group) address to be bound to the stream.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
block where the call control (circuit, circuit group) address begins.
.TP
.I cc_setup_ind
Is the requested number of setup indications (simultaneous incoming calls)
allowed to be outstanding by the CCS provider for the specified protocol
address.  (If the number of outstanding setup indications equals
.I cc_setup_ind,
the CCS provider need not discard further incoming setup indications, but may
choose to queue them internally until the number of outstanding setup
indications drops below the
.I cc_setup_ind
number.) Only one stream per call control address is allowed to have a
.I cc_setup_ind
number value greater than zero.  This indicates to the CCS provider that this
stream is the listener stream for the CCS user.  This stream will be used by
the CCS provider for setup indications for that call control address.
.sp
If a stream is bound as a listener stream, it is still able to initiate outgoing call setup requests.
.TP
.I cc_bind_flags
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.I cc_bind_flags
field is a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
When set, this flag specifies that this stream is the "default listener
stream."  This stream is used to pass setup indications (or continuity check
requests) for all incoming calls that contain protocol identifiers that are
not bound to any other listener, or when a listener stream with
.I cc_setup_ind
value of greater than zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will
receive all incoming call indications that contain no user data (i.e., test
calls) and all maintenance indications (i.e.,
.BR CC_MAINT_IND (7)).
Only one default listener stream is allowed per occurrence of CCI.  An attempt
to bind a default listener stream when one is already bound should result in
an error (of type
.RB [ CCADDRBUSY ]).
.TP
.B CC_TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that the CCS user has
requested that a "token" be assigned to the stream (to be used in the call
response message), and the token value be returned to the CCS user via the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.  The token assigned by the CCS provider can then be used by the CCS
user in a subsequent
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
primitive to identify the stream on which the call is to be established.
.TP
.B CC_MANAGEMENT
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for circuit management indications for the specified addresses.
.TP
.B CC_TEST
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for continuity and test call indications for the specified addresses.
.TP
.B CC_MAINTENANCE
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for maintenance indications for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.IP (1) 4
Only one of
.BR CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER ,
.BR CC_MANAGMENT ,
.BR CC_TEST " and "
.B CC_MAINTENANCE
may be set.
.\"
.\"
.IP (2)
If the number of setup indications,
.IR cc_setup_ind ,
is non-zero, the stream is bound as a listening stream.  Listening streams
will receive all calls, test call, continuity test indications, management
indications and maintenance indications that are incoming to the address
bound.
.\"
.\"
.IP (3)
The
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
will receive all incoming calls, test calls, continuity test indications,
management indications and maintenance indications that have no other
listening stream.  There can only be one stream bound with
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
set for any given call control address scope.
.\"
.\"
.IP (4)
Streams bound with the
.BR CC_MANAGEMENT
flag set will receive only management indications and will not receive any
calls;
.BR CC_TEST ,
continuity test indications and test calls; and
.BR CC_MAINTENANCE ,
only maintenance indications.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_UNBND
(see Appendix B).
The new state is
.BR CCS_WACK_BREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider will generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Non-fatal errors" :
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address was in an incorrect format or the address contained
illegal information.  It is not intended to indicate protocol errors.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The CCS user did not provide a call control address and the CCS provider could
not allocate an address to the user.
.TP
.RB [ CCADDRBUSY ]
The CCS user attempted to bind a second stream to a call control address with
the
.I cc_setup_ind
number set to a non-zero value, or attempted to bind a second stream with the
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag value set to non-zero.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ]
The flags were invalid or unsupported, or the combination of flags was
invalid.  This error is returned if more than one of
.BR CC_TEST ", " CC_MANAGEMENT ", or " CC_MAINTENANCE
flags are set.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive format was incorrect (i.e. too short).
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \(em 4
The call control address bound can be an address of any scope valid for the
protocol.
See the protocol specific documentation for formats and rules governing call
control addresses.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Streams bound at one scope take precedence over a stream bound at another
scope as specified in the protocol specific documentation.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The bind flag,
.BR CC_TEST ,
is only used for protocols supporting test calls, of which ISUP is the only
current protocol.  For all other protocols the
.B CC_TEST
bind flag is invalid if set.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
For protocols supporting call references, any setup indications arriving for
the global or dummy call reference will be delivered to a listening stream
bound with the management flag,
.BR CC_MANAGEMENT ,
set, or the default listener bound with the
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag set.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
