'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONT_CHECK_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/17 11:56:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 11:56:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_CONT_CHECK_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:04  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONT_CHECK_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONT_CHECK_IND
\- continuity check indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_cont_check_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONT_CHECK_IND */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* adress length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* adress offset */
} CC_cont_check_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a continuity check is being
requested by the CCS user peer on the specified call control address(es)
(signalling interface and circuit identifiers).  Upon receipt of this
primitive, the CCS user should establish a loop back device on the specified
channel and issues the
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
primitive confirming the loop back.
The CCS user should then wait for the
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
indicating the
success or failure of the continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.PP
This primitive is only delivered to listening streams listening on the
specified call control addresses or to a stream bound as a default listener in
the same manner as the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7).
(A continuity test indication is treated
as a special form of call setup.)
.\"
.\"
.PP
This primitive is only issued to CCS users that successfully bound using the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive with flag
.B CC_TEST
set and a non-zero number of setup
indications was provided in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
and returned in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Identifies the call reference that can be used by the CCS user to associate
this message with the
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
primitive that is to follow.  This value must be unique among the outstanding
.B CC_CONT_CHECK_IND
messages.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address (circuit identifier) upon
which a continuity check is indicated.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the requesting address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_IDLE
for the specified addresses.
The new state is
.B CKS_WREQ_CTEST
for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is only valid for addresses in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
