'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_IBI_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/17 11:56:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 11:56:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_IBI_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:04  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_IBI_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_IBI_REQ
\- in-band information request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_ibi_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_IBI_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* ibi flags */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameter length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameter offset */
} CC_ibi_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive request that the CCS provider indicate to the calling CCS user
that the in-band information is now available.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_IBI_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
specifies the call reference.  The call reference is used by the CCS provider
to identify the call.
.TP
.I cc_flags
specifies the flags associated with the primitive.  In band information flags
are protocol specific (see Addendum).
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
specifies the length of the optional parameters associated with the in-band
information request.  If no optional parameters are associated with the in
band information request, then this parameter must be coded zero.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in states
.BR CCS_WREQ_MORE ,
.BR CCS_WREQ_PROCEED ,
.BR CCS_WREQ_ALERTING ,
.BR CCS_WREQ_PROGRESS " and "
.BR CCS_WREQ_CONNECT .
The new state is
.BR CCS_WREQ_CONNECT .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in NNI mode and in UNI (User and Network) mode for compatibility with the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ]
The specified flags contained incorrect or unsupported information.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The optional parameters were in an incorrect format, or contained illegal
information.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address
or options.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive is of an incorrect format or an offset exceeds the size of the
.B M_PROTO
block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
