'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_RESET_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/17 11:56:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 11:56:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_RESET_RES.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:05  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:12  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_RESET_RES 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_RESET_RES
\- circuit reset response
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_reset_res {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_RESET_RES */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* reset flags */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_reset_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive request the CCS provider to complete the reset operation for
the specified call control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit
identifiers) which was previously indicated with a
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_RESET_RES .
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates options flags for the operation.  (See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.)
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) upon which the CCS user has accepted a reset.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply to the reset of call control addresses (signalling
interface and circuit identifiers):
.IP \(em 4
The set of addresses specified must be a non-empty subset of the addresses
which were specified in the indication primitive to which this primitive is
responding.
.IP \(em
Only once the primitive is succesfully accepted by the CCS provider should the
CCS provider take any actions whatsoever with regard to reset.
.IP \(em
Call control addresses included in the call control address list which are not
equipped may be ignored by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_WRES_RESIND
for the specified
address(es).  The new state is
.B CCS_WACK_RESRES
for the specified address(es).
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient permission to perform the operation on the
specified call control addresses.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The call control address was not provided (cc_addr_length coded zero).
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address(es) contained in the primitive were poorly formatted
or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is not supported for the UNI interface and a UNI signalling
interface identifier was provided in the call control address.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.RB CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
