'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_SETUP_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:48:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:48:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_SETUP_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:48:57  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:05  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:12  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_SETUP_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
\- call setup request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_setup_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_SETUP_REQ */
    ulong cc_user_ref;          /* user call reference */
    ulong cc_call_type;         /* call type */
    ulong cc_call_flags;        /* call flags */
    ulong cc_cdpn_length;       /* called party number length */
    ulong cc_cdpn_offset;       /* called party number offset */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameters length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameters offset */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* connect to address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* connect to address offset */
} CC_setup_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider make a call to the specified
destination.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Specifies a reference number known to the CCS user that uniquely identifies
the current setup request.  When this value is non-zero, it permits the CCS
User to have multiple outstanding setup requests pending on the same stream.
Responses made by the CCS provider to the
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
primitive will contain this CCS user call attempt reference.
.TP
.I cc_call_type
Specifies the type of call to be set up.  Call types supported are dependent
upon the CCS provider and protocol, see
.IR \*(lqNOTES\*(rq ", below, "
for call types for specific protocols.
.TP
.I cc_call_flags
Specifies a bit field of call options.  Call flags supported are dependent
upon the CCS provider and protocol, see
.IR \*(lqNOTES\*(rq ", below, "
call flags for specific protocols.
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_length
Specifies the length of the called party number parameter that conveys an
address identifying the CCS user to which the call is to be established.  This
field will accommodate variable length numbers within a range supported by the
CCS provider.  If no called party number is provided by the CCS user, this
field must be coded to zero.  The coding of the called party number is
protocol and provider-specific.
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_offset
Is the offset of the called party number from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies the length of optional parameters to be conveyed in the call setup.
This field will accomodate variable length addresses within a range supported
by the CCS provider.  If no optional parameters are provided by the CCS user,
this field must be coded to zero.  The format of optional parameters are
protocol and provider-specific, see
.IR \*(lqNOTES\*(rq ", below, "
the format of optional parameters for specific protocols.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies the length of the call control address parameter that conveys the
call control address (circuit, circuit group) of the CCS user entity to which
the call is to be established.  The semantics of the values in the
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
is identical to the values in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the call control address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply to the setup of calls to the specified addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the
.I cc_cdpn_length
field in the
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
primitive is zero, then the CCS provider is to
select a called party number for the call.  If the CCS provider cannot select
a called party number for the call, the CCS provider responds with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the
.I cc_cdpn_length
field in the
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
primitive is non-zero, the CCS provider is to setup
the call to the specified number.  If the CCS provider cannot setup a call of
the specified call type to the specified number the call will fail and the CCS
provider will return a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with the appropriate error value (e.g.,
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]).
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following rules apply to the call control addresses (trunk groups and
circuit identifiers):
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the CCS user does not specify a call control address (i.e.
.I cc_addr_length
is set to zero), then the CCS provider may attempt to assign a call control
address, assign it a call reference and associate it with the stream for the
duration of the call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following rules apply to the CCS user call attempt reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the CCS user does not specify a call attempt reference (i.e. the
.I cc_user_ref
is set to zero), then the CCS provider can only support one outstanding
outgoing call attempt for the stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the CCS user wishes to setup multiple outgoing calls on the same stream,
the CCS user associates a user call reference with each of the setup requests
so that the indication, confirmation and acknolwedgement primitives can be
associated with the specific call setup request.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the CCS user specifies a call
attempt reference, all replies made by the CCS provider to this
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
primitive will contain the CCS user specified call attempt reference until
either the call fails or is released, or after the CCS provider sends a
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
User call references are only necessary if multiple outgoing calls are to be
setup at the same time.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
User call references only need by valid until a setup confirmation,  call
reattempt indication, release indication or call failure indication has been
received in response to the setup request.  A setup confirmation will contain
a CCS provider call reference which can be used to distinguish the call from
other calls to the CCS provider after setup confirmation.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_IDLE .
The new state depends upon the information provided in the
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
message as follows:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the setup request specifies that a continuity check was performed on a
previous circuit, the new state is
.B CCS_WREQ_CCREP
(awaiting report of the result of continuity test performed on the previous
circuit).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup request specifies that a continuity check is required on the
circuit, the new state is
.B CCS_WIND_CTEST
(awaiting indication of remote loop back on the circuit).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup request specifies that no continuity test is required on this or
a previous circuit and that the called party number contains partial
information, the new state is
.B CCS_WIND_MORE
(awaiting the indication that more information is required).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup request specifies that no continuity test is required on this or
a previous circuit and that the called party number contains complete
information, the new state is
.B CCS_WCON_SREQ
(awaiting confirmation of the setup request).
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The following acknowledgments are valid for this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful Call Establishment" :
This is indicated via the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive.  This results in the Call Establishment state.  For
.B CC_SETUP_REQ
primitives where
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
is set, or where the CCS provider otherwise determines that a continuity check
is required on the circuit, success is still indicated via the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive.  In this case, the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive is not sent by the CCS provider unless the continuity check is
successful.  For
.B CCS_SETUP primitives where
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_PREVIOUS
is set, the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive is not sent by the CCS provider until the CCS user sends a
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
primitive indicating that continuity check on the previous circuit has been
successful.  Receipt of the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive always results in the Call Establishment state.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful Call Establishment" :
This is indicated via the
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND "(7), " CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
primitives.  For example, a call may be rejected because either the called CCS
user cannot be reached, or the CCS provider and/or the called CCS user did not
agree on the specified call type or options.  This results in the Idle state.
Where the
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
primitives are sent before the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive, the
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
primitives will contain the CCS user specified call attempt reference.
.HP
.IR "Non-fatal errors" :
These are indicated via the CC_ERROR_ACK primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the UNIX system eror is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect
format, or the address contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADDIGS ]
The called party number was in the incorrect format, or contained illegal
information.  This is used only to handle coding errors of the number and is
not intended to provide for protocol errors.  Protocol errors should be
conveyed in the
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND "(7), " CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
primitives.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The optional parameters were in an incorrect format, or contained illegal
information.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The user did not provide a called party number field and one was required by
the call type.  The CCS provider could not select a called party number.
.TP
.RB [ CCADDRBUSY ]
The CCS provider could not use the specified address because the specified
address is already in use.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal (not
unique).
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive was of an incorrect format (i.e. too small, or an offset is out
of range).
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address
or options.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Corrigendum for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address and options format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The called party number, specified by
.IR cc_cdpn_length " and " cc_cdpn_offset ,
is formatted as specified in Q.763, ANSI T1.113,
without the parameter type or length octets.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call type, specified in
.IR cc_call_type ,
can be one of the following call types:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_PREFERRED
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_2x64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_384KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_1536KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_1920KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Q.764 conforming CCS providers must support the following minimal set of call types:
.sp
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH
.br
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.br
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO
.br
.B ISUP_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_PREFERRED
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call flags, specified in
.IR cc_call_flags ,
can be one of the following flags:
.\"
.RS
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following flags correspond to bits in the
.I Nature of Connection Indicators
parameter of Q.763:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR ISUP_NCI_ONE_SATELLITE_CCT ", " ISUP_NCI_TWO_SATELLITE_CCT
When one of these flags is set it specifies that either one or two satellite
circuits are present in the connection.  Otherwise, it specifies that no
satellite circuits are present in the connection.
Only one of these two flags may be set.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED ", " ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_PREVIOUS
When one of these flags is set, it specifies that either a continuity check is
required on the connection leg, or that a continuity check is peformed on a
previous connnection leg.  Otherwise, it specifies that a continuity check is
not required on the connection leg.
Only one of these two flags may be set.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B ISUP_NCI_OG_ECHO_CONTROL_DEVICE
When set, indicates that an outgoing half echo control device is included on
the connection.  Otherwise, that no outgoing half echo control device is
included.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following flags correspond to bits in the
.I Forward Call Indicators
parameter of Q.763
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "ISUP_FCI_INTERNATIONAL_CALL"
When this flag is set, the call is to be treated as an international call.
Otherwise, the call is to be treated as a national call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR ISUP_FCI_PASS_ALONG_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " ISUP_FCI_SCCP_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the pass along end-to-end method is
available or the SCCP end-to-end method is available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end method is available and only link-by-link method is available.
Only one of these two flags may be set.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "ISUP_FCI_INTERWORKING_ENCOUNTERED"
When this flag is set, interworking has been encountered on the call.
Otherwise, no interworking has been encountered on the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "ISUP_FCI_E2E_INFORMATION_AVAILABLE"
When this flag is set, end-to-end information is now available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end information is available.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "ISUP_FCI_ISDN_USER_PART_ALL_THE_WAY"
When this flag is set, ISDN User Part has been used all the way on the call.
Otherwise, ISDN User Part has not been used all the way.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "ISUP_FCI_ORIGINATING_ACCESS_ISDN"
When this flag is set, the originating access is ISDN.  Otherwise, the
originating access is non-ISDN.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR ISUP_FCI_SCCP_CLNS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " ISUP_FCI_SCCP_CONS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " ISUP_FCI_SCCP_ALL_METHODS_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the connectionless SCCP method is
available, the connection oriented SCCP method is available, or both methods
are available.  Otherwise, no SCCP method is indicated as available.
Only one of these three flags may be set.
.\"
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call control address, specified in
.IR cc_addr_length " and " cc_addr_offset ,
can be any ISUP address at
.I scope
.BR ISUP_SCOPE_CT ,
to place an outgoing call on a specific circuit; or,
.BR ISUP_SCOPE_TG ,
to automatically select a circuit from a trunk group for the outgoing call.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Corrigendum for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address and options format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Corrigendum for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address and options format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The called party number, specified in
.IR cc_cdpn_length " and " cc_cdpn_offset ,
is formatted as specified in H.225.0 for the
.I Called Party Number
information element, without the Information Element tag or length octets.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call type, specified in
.IR cc_call_type ,
can be one of the following call types:
.\"
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_64KBPS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_64KBPS_PREFERRED
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_2x64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_384KBPS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_1536KBPS_UNRESTRICTED
.TP
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_1920KBPS_UNRESTRICTED
.\"
.\"
.RE
.\"
.IP \(em
H.225.0 conforming CCS providers must support the following minimal set of
call types:
.sp
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH
.br
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_64KBPS_UNRESTRICTED
.br
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO
.br
.B H225_CALL_TYPE_64KBPS_PREFERRED
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call flags, specified in
.IR cc_call_flags ,
can be a bitwise OR or zero or more of the following flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The call control address, specified in
.IR cc_addr_length " and " cc_addr_offset ,
can be any H225 address at
.I scope
.BR H225_SCOPE_TP ,
to place an outgoing call to a specific H.225.0 transport address;
.BR H225_SCOPE_EP ,
to a specific H.323 endpoint (terminal or gatekeeper); or
.BR H225_SCOPE_ZN ,
to a specific H.323 GK/GW zone.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Corrigendum for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address and options format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
