'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/17 11:56:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 11:56:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:09  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cci
\- Call Control Interface
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.HP
.BI "int " cc_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/isup\*(rq ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " cc_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/isdn\*(rq ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " cc_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/bicc\*(rq ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The Call Control Interface,
.BR CCI ,
specifies a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of the ITU-T Call Control
Interface definition.  The Call Control Interface (CCI) enables the user of a
call control service to access and use any of a variety of conforming call
control service providers without specific knowledge of the provider's
protocol.  The service interface is designed to support any network call
control protocol and user call control protocol.  This interface only
specifies access to call control service providers, and does not address
issues concerning call control and circuit management, protocol performance,
and performance analysis tools.  The specification assumes that the reader is
familiar with ITU-T state machines and call control interfaces (e.g., Q.764,
Q.931), and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CCI
specifies an interface that supports the services provided by the Integrated
Services Digital Network
.RB ( isdn (4))
and ISDN User Part
.RB ( isup (4))
for ITU-T applications as described in ITU-T Recommendation Q.931 and ITU-T
Recommendation Q.764.
.B CCI
also supports
.BR bicc (4),
.BR bssap (4),
.BR h225 (4),
.BR gr303 (4),
and
.BR v5 (4).
These specifications are targeted for use by developers and testers of
protocol modules that require call control service.
.\"
.\"
.SS "The Call Control Layer"
.PP
The Call Control Layer provides the means to manage the connection and
disconnection of calls.  It is responsible for the routing and management of
call control signalling between call control-user entities.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Model of the CCI"
.PP
The CCI defines the services provided by the call control layer to the call
control-user at the boundary between the call control layer and the call
control layer user entity.  The interface consists of a set of primitives
defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provide access to the call control layer
services, and are transferred between the CCS user entity and the CCS
provider.  These primitives are of two types; ones that originate from the CCS
user, and others that originate from the CCS provider.  The primitives that
originate from the CCS user make requests to the CCS provider, or respond to
an indication of an event of the CCS provider.  The primitives that originate
from the CCS provider are either confirmations of a request or are indications
to the CCS user that the event has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The CCI allows the CCS provider to be configured with any call control layer
user (such as an ISDN user call control application) that also conforms to the
CCI.  A cal control layer user can also be a user program that conforms to the
CCI and accesses the CCS provide via
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.\"
.\"
.SS "CCI Services"
.PP
The features of the CCI are defined in terms of the services provided by the
CCS provider, and the individual primitives that may flow between the CCS user
and the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The services supported by the CCI are based on three distinct modes of
communication, user-network interface (UNI) User mode, user-network interface
(UNI) Network mode, and network-network interface (NNI).  In addition, the CCI
supports services for local management.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "UNI"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The main features of the User-Network Interface mode of communication are:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
It is call oriented.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
It employs facility associated signalling in that the signalling interface and
circuits which are controlled by that signalling interface are bound by
physical configuration.  (For example, 23B+D, 2B+D).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The protocol has two aspects to the interface: one side of the interface
follows the User protocol whereas the other side of the interface follows the
Network protocol.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The user side of the protocol has no formal maintenance or monitoring
procedures and therefore reports most if not all system events to the user.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The network side of the protocol has formal maintenance and monitoring
procedures and therefore reports most if not all system events to maintenance.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "NNI"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The main features of the Network-Network Interface mode of communication are:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
It is circuit oriented.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
It employs quasi-associated signalling in that the path taken by signalling
and the path taken by the circuits are not necessarily related.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The protocol has one aspect and is peer-to-peer: that is, both sides of a
signalling interface follow the same protocol in the same way.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The network side of the protocol has formal maintenance and monitoring
procedures and therefore reports most if not all system events to maintenance.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Local Management"
.PP
The CCI specifications also define a set of local management functions that
apply to UNI and NNI modes of communication.  These services have local
significance only.  Tables 1, 2 and 3 summarizes the CCI service primitives by
their state and service.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CCI SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
This section describes the services of the CCI primitives.  Time-sequence
diagrams that illustrate the sequence of primitives are included.
(Conventions for the time-sequence diagrams are defined in ITU-T X.210.)  The
format of the primitives are defined separately.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
|l|l|ls|.
_:_:_
Local Management:Both:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_INFO_REQ(7), CC_INFO_ACK(7),
CC_BIND_REQ(7), CC_BIND_ACK(7),
CC_UNBIND_REQ(7),
CC_ADDR_REQ(7), CC_ADDR_ACK(7),
CC_OPTMGMT_REQ(7), CC_OPTMGMT_ACK(7),
CC_OK_ACK(7), CC_ERROR_ACK(7)
T}
_:_:_
Call Setup:Both:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_SETUP_REQ(7), CC_SETUP_IND(7),
CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND(7),
CC_MORE_INFO_REQ(7), CC_MORE_INFO_IND(7),
CC_INFORMATION_REQ(7), CC_INFORMATION_IND(7),
CC_SETUP_RES(7), CC_SETUP_CON(7)
T}
:_:_
:UNI:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND
T}
:_:_
:NNI:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ(7),
CC_CONT_REPORT_IND(7)
T}
_:_:_
Call Establishment:Both:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_PROCEEDING_REQ(7), CC_PROCEEDING_IND(7),
CC_ALERTING_REQ(7), CC_ALERTING_IND(7),
CC_PROGRESS_REQ(7), CC_PROGRESS_IND(7),
CC_CONNECT_REQ(7), CC_CONNECT_IND(7)
T}
_:_:_
Call Established:Both:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_SUSPEND_REQ(7), CC_SUSPEND_RES(7), CC_SUSPEND_IND(7), CC_SUSPEND_CON(7),
CC_RESUME_REQ(7), CC_RESUME_RES(7), CC_RESUME_IND(7), CC_RESUME_CON(7)
T}
:_:_
:UNI:T{
CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ(7), CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND(7),
CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ(7), CC_RESUME_REJECT_IND(7)
T}
_:_:_
Call Termination:Both:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND(7),
CC_IBI_REQ(7), CC_IBI_IND(7),
CC_RELEASE_REQ(7), CC_RELEASE_IND(7),
CC_RELEASE_RES(7), CC_RELEASE_CON(7)
T}
:_:_
:UNI:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_DISCONNECT_REQ(7), CC_DISCONNECT_IND(7)
T}
_:_:_
Provider Management:UNI:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_RESTART_REQ(7), CC_RESTART_CON(7)
T}
:_:_
:NNI:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_RESET_REQ(7), CC_RESET_IND(7),
CC_RESET_RES(7), CC_RESET_CON(7),
CC_BLOCKING_REQ(7), CC_BLOCKING_IND(7),
CC_BLOCKING_RES(7), CC_BLOCKING_CON(7),
CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ(7), CC_UNBLOCKING_IND(7),
CC_UNBLOCKING_RES(7), CC_UNBLOCKING_CON(7),
CC_QUERY_REQ(7), CC_QUERY_IND(7),
CC_QUERY_RES(7), CC_QUERY_CON(7)
T}
::_
::T{
.ad l
.hy 0
CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ(7), CC_CONT_CHECK_IND(7),
CC_CONT_TEST_REQ(7), CC_CONT_TEST_IND(7),
CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ(7), CC_CONT_REPORT_IND(7)
T}
_:_:_
.TE
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
The services defined in this section are outside the scope of international
standards.  These services apply to UNI (User and Network), and NNI modes of
communication.  They are invoked for the initialization/de-initialization of a
stream connected to the CCS provider.  They are also used to manage options
supported by the CCS provider and to report information on the supported
parameter values.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Control Information Reporting Service"
.PP
This service provides information on the options supported by the CCS
provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFO_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider return the values of all the
supported protocol parameters.  This request may be invoked during any phase.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFO_ACK (7)
This primitive is in response to the N_INFO_REQ primitive and returns the
values of the supported protocol parameters to the CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.SS "CCS Address Service"
.PP
This service allows a CCS user to determine the bound call control address and
the connected call control address for a given call reference associated with a
stream.  It permits the CCS user to not necessarily retain this information
locally, and allows the CCS user to determine this information from the CCS
provider at any time.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ADDR_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider return
information concerning which call control address the CCS user is bound as
well as the call control address upon which the CCS user is currently engaged
in a call for the specified call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
This primitive is in response to the CC_ADDR_REQ
primitive and indicates to the CCS user the requested information.
.\"
.\"
.SS "CCS User Bind Service"
.PP
This service allows a call control address to be associated with a stream.  It
allows the CCS user to negotiate the number of setup indications that can
remain unacknowledged for that CCS user (a setup indication is considered
unacknowledged while it is awaiting a corresponding setup response or release
request from the CCS user).  This service also defines a mechanism that allows
a stream (bound to a call control address of the CCS user) to be reserved to
handle incoming calls only.  This stream is referred to as the listener
stream.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS user be bound to a particular call control
address and negotiate the number of allowable outstanding setup indications
for that address.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
This primitive is in response to the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive and indicates to the user that the specified CCS user has been bound
to a call control address.
.\"
.\"
.SS "CCS User Unbind Service"
.PP
This service allows the CCS user to be unbound from a call control address.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_UNBIND_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS user be unbound from the call control
address that it had previously been bound to.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Receipt Acknowledgment Service"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the previous (indicated) CCS
user originated primitive was received successfully by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Options Management Service"
.PP
This service allows the CCS user to manage options parameter values associated
with the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
This primitive allows the CCS user to select default
values for options parameters within the range supported by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Error Acknowledgment Service"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a non-fatal error has occurred
in the last CCS user originated request or response primitive (listed in
\fI\*(&f\n(&n\fR), on the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "USER-NETWORK INTERFACE SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
This section describes the required call control service primitives that
define the UNI interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The queue model for UNI is discussed in more detail in ITU-T Q.931.  For Q.931
specific conformance considerations, see Addendum 1.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The queue model represents the operation of a call control connection in the
abstract by a pair of queues linking the two call control addresses.  There is
one queue for each direction of signalling transfer.  The ability of a user to
add objects to a queue will be determined by the behavior of the user removing
objects from that queue, and the state of the queue.  The pair of queues is
considered to be available for each potential call.  Objects that are entered
or removed from the queue are either as a result of interactions at the two
call control addresses, or as the result of CCS provider initiatives.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
A queue is empty until a setup object has been entered and can be returned to
this state, with loss of its contents, by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Objects may be entered into a queue as a result of the action of the source
CCS user, subject to control by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Objects may also be entered into a queue by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Objects are removed from the queue under the control of the receiving CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Objects are normally removed under the control of the CCS user in the same
order as they were entered except:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
if the object is of a type defined to be able to advance ahead of the
preceding object, or
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
if the following object is defined to be destructive with respect to the
preceding object on the queue.  If necessary, the last object on the queue
will be deleted to allow a destructive object to be entered \- they will
therefore always be added to the queue.  For example, "release" objects are
defined to be destructive with respect to all other objects.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Setup Phase"
.PP
A pair of queues is associated with a call between two call control addresses
(facility group and channel(s)) when the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive at one of the call control addresses resulting in a setup object
being entered into the queue.  The queues will remain associated with the call
until a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
or
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
(resulting in a release object) is
either entered into or removed from a queue.  Similarly, in the queue from the
called CCS user, objects can be entered into the queue only after the setup
object associated with the
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
has been entered into the queue.
Alternatively, the called CCS user can enter a release object into the queue
instead of the setup object to terminate the call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The call establishment procedure will fail if the CCS provider is unable to
establish the call, or if the destination CCS user is unable to accept the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
(see call failure and call reject primitive definitions).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Successful Call Setup:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider setup a call to the specified
destination (called party number).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider provide more information to
establish the call.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen bloc\fR
signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider provide more information
(digits) in addition to the destination (called party number) already
specified in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
and subsequent
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)
primitives.
This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider accept a previous call setup
indication on the specified stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Call Setup:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that an event has caused call
setup to fail on the selected address and that a reattempt should be made (or
has been made) on another call control address (facility group and
channel(s)).  This primitive is only issued by the CCS provider if the CCS
user is bound at the channel level rather than the facility group  or
equipment group levels.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a call setup request has been
made by a user at the specified call control address (facility group and
channel(s)).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that more information is required to
establish the call.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR
signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user more information (digits) in addition
to the destination (called party number) already indicated in the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
and subsequent
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)
primitives.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR signalling
mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the called CCS user that a timeout occurred while
waiting for additional information (called party number).  The receiving CCS
User should determine whether sufficient address digits have been received and
either disconnect the call with the
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive or continue the call with
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7).
This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a call setup request has been
confirmed on the indicated call control address (channel(s)).
.\"
.\"
.PP
If the CCS provider is unable to establish a call, it indicates this to the
request by a
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Establishment Phase"
.PP
During the call establishment phase, a pair of queues has already been
associated with the call between the selected call control addresses (facility
group and channel(s)) during the setup phase.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Successful Call Establishment:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the call is proceeding and that all necessary information has been
received.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the terminating user is being alerted.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the specified progress event has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_IBI_REQ "(7), " CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that in-band information is now available.  This will also invite the
peer to release the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONNECT_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the call has been connected.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider complete the call setup.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Call Establishment:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call control peer is
proceeding and that all necessary information has been received.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the terminating user is being
alerted.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the specified progress event has
occurred.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_IBI_IND "(7), " CC_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that in-band information is now
available.  It also invites the CCS user to release the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONNECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call has been connected.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call has completed setup.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Call Setup:
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Established Phase"
.PP
Flow control of the call is done by management of the queue capacity, and by
allowing objects of certain types to be inserted to the queues, as shown in
Table X.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Suspend Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Suspend Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)
This primitives requests that the CCS provider temporarily suspend a call at
the network, or indicate user suspension of a call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_RES (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user (Network) is
accepting the request for suspension of the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user (Network) is
rejecting the request for suspension of the call, and the cause for rejection.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Suspend Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that an established call has been
temporarily suspended at the network, or by the remote user.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_CON (7)
This primitive confirms to the requesting CCS user (User) that the call has
been temporarily suspended at the network.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the requesting CCS user (User) that the request to
suspend the call has been rejected by the network, and the cause for
rejection.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Resume Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Resume Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider resume a previously network
suspended call, or indicates that the user has resumed a call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_RES (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user (Network) is
accepting the request for resumption of the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user (Network) is
rejecting the request for resumption of the call, and the cause for rejection.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Resume Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a previously suspended call has
been resumed at the network, or by the remote user.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_CON (7)
This primitive confirms to the requesting CCS user (User) that the call has
been resumed at the network.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the requesting CCS user (User) that the request to
resume the call has been rejected by the network, and the cause for rejection.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The sequence of primitives as shown above may remain incomplete if a
.B CC_RESET
or
.B CC_RELEASE
primitive occurs (see Table 3).  A CCS user must not issue a
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
primitive if no
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)
has been sent previously.
Following a reset procedure
.RB ( CC_RESET_REQ (7)
or
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)),
a CCS user may not issue a
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
to resume a call suspended before the reset procedure was signaled.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Termination Phase"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Reject Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Call Reject Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_REJECT_REQ (7)
This primitive indicates that the CCS user receiving the specified
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
requests that the specified call indication be rejected.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Call Reject Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_REJECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that the call has been
rejected.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Failure Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Call Failure Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the called CCS user that an event has caused the
call to fail and indicates the reason for the failure and the cause value
associated with the failure.  The CCS user is required to release the call
using the indicated cause value in a
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Release Service"
The call release procedure is initialized by the insertion of a release object
(associated with a
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ "(7), " CC_RELEASE_REQ "(7) or " CC_REJECT_REQ (7))
in the queue.  As shown in Table 3, the release procedure is destructive with
respect to other objects in the queue, and eventually results in the emptying
of queues and termination of the call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The Release procedure invokes the following interactions:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
A
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
from the CCS user, followed by a
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
from the CCS provider and a subsequent
.BR CC_RELEASE_RES (7)
from the CCS user; or
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
A
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
from the CCS provider, followed by a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
from the CCS user and a subsequent
.BR CC_RELEASE_CON (7)
from the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The sequence of primitive depends on the origin of the release action.  The
sequence may be:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by the CCS user, with a request from that CCS user, leading to
interaction (A) with that CCS user and interaction (B) with the peer CCS user;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by both CCS users, with a request from each of the CCS users, leading
to interaction (A) with both CCS users;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by the CCS provider, leading to interaction (B) with both CCS users.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked independently by one CCS user and the CCS provider, leading to
interaction (A) with the originating CCS user and (B) with the peer CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Release Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider disconnect the B-Channel or
indicate tones and announcements present.  Tones and announcements should be
requested in the
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
primitive rather than the
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider disconnect the B-Channel (if not
already disconnected) and release the call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_RES (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user has accepted a
release indication and has released the call reference.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Release Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user or provider has disconnected
the B-Channel or has made tones and announcements available.  The CCS provider
should indicate tones and announcements present only with the
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
primitive rather than the
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS has disconnected the B-Channel
and released the call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_CON (7)
This primitive confirms that the remove CCS has disconnected the B-Channel and
released the call reference.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Management"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Call Management:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESTART_REQ (7)
This primitive requests the CCS provider to restart all the call control
addresses (signalling interface and channels) for the UNI interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Call Management:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESTART_CON (7)
This primitive confirms to the requesting CCS user that all call control
addresses (signalling interface and channels) for the UNI interface have been
restarted and all calls are in the
.B CCS_IDLE
state.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_MAINT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to CCS user that various events have occurred
requiring maintenance notification (e.g., restart indication).
.bp
.\"
.\"
.SH "NETWORK-NETWORK INTERFACE SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
This section describes the required call control service primitives that
define the NNI interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The queue model for NNI is discussed in more detail in ITU-T Q.764.  For Q.764
specific conformance considerations, see Addendum 2.  For ETSI EN 300 356-1
V3.2.2 specific conformance considerations, see Addendum 3.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Setup Phase"
.PP
A pair of queues is associated with a call between the two call control
addresses when the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive at one of the call control addresses resulting in a setup object
being entered into the queue.  The queues will remain associated with the call
until a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
(resulting in a release object) is either entered into or removed from a
queue.  Similarly, in the queue from the called CCS user, objects can be
entered into the queue only after the setup object associated with the
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
has been entered into the queue.  Alternatively, the called CCS user can enter
a release object into the queue instead of the setup object to terminate the
call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The call establishment procedure will fail if the CCS provider is unable to
establish the call, or if the destination CCS user is unable to accept the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
(see call release primitive definition).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Successful Call Setup:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider setup a call to the specified
destination (called party address).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider provide more information to
establish the call.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR
signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider provide more information
(digits) in addition to the destination (called party number) already
specified in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
and subsequent
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)
primitives.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR signalling
mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider accept a previous call setup
indication on the specified stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Call Setup:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that an event has caused call
setup to fail on the selected address and that a reattempt should be made (or
has been made) on another call control address (signalling interface and
circuit(s)).  This primitive is only issued by the CCS provider if the CCS
user is bound at the circuit level rather than the circuit group or trunk
group level.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a call setup request has been
made by a user at the specified call control address (circuit(s)).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that more information is required to
establish the call.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR
signalling mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user more information (digits) in addition
to the destination (called party number) already indicated in the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
and subsequent
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)
primitives.  This primitive is not issued for \fIen block\fR signalling
mode.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the called CCS user that a timeout occurred while
waiting for additional information (called party number).  The receiving CCS
User should determine whether sufficient address digits have been received and
either disconnect the call with the
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ
primitive or continue
the call with
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a call setup request has been
confirmed on the indicated call control address (circuits(s)).
.\"
.\"
.SS "Continuity Test Phase"
.PP
The continuity test service is only applicable to the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
During the continuity test phase, a pair of queues has already been associated
with the call between the selected call control addresses (signalling
interface and circuit(s)) during the setup phase.  The continuity test phase
begins when the CCS provider returns a
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
primitive in response to a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive which had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set in the call flags.  The continuity test phase also begins when the
CCS user responds with
a
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
primitive in response to a
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
primitive which had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set in the call flags.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Upon entering the continuity test phase, it is the responsibility of the CCS
user to establish a loop back on the call control address (signalling
interface and circuit(s)) or to attach tone generation and detection devices
to the call control address (signalling interface and circuit(s)).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Continuity Test Successful"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Successful Continuity Test:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
This primitive, with the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, requests that the CCS provider setup a call and include a continuity
check before the call is established.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider perform a continuity check on
the specified call control address (signalling interface and circuit(s)).
This primitive is only necessary for performing continuity checks that are not
in conjunction with a call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider accept an outstanding call setup
indication.  When the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, it indicates to the CCS provider that the necessary loop back device
has been install on the call control address (signalling interface and
circuit(s)).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the remote CCS user
that the continuity test has succeeded (cc_result is set to
.BR ISUP_COT_SUCCESS ).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Continuity Test:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
This primitive, with the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, indicates to the CCS user that a call setup including a continuity
check is requested.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a continuity check was requested
on the specified call control address (signalling interface and circuit(s)).
This primitive is only necessary for performing continuity checks that are not
in conjunction with a call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user has accepted a call setup
indication on the specified call control address (signalling interface and
circuit(s)).  When the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
primitive had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, it indicates to the CCS user that the necessary loop back device has
been installed on the remote end of the call control address (signalling
interface and circuit(s)).  The CCS user receiving this primitive must attach
the necessary tone generation and detection devices to the circuit(s) and
perform the continuity test.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the continuity test was
successful.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Continuity Test Unsuccessful"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Unsuccessful Continuity Test:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
This primitive, with the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, requests that the CCS provider setup a call and include a continuity
check before the call is established.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider accept an outstanding call setup
indication.  When the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, it also indicates to the CCS provider that the necessary loop back
device has been install on the call control address (signalling interface and
circuit(s)).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
This primitiive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the remote CCS user
that the continuity test has failed (cc_result is set to
.BR ISUP_COT_FAILURE ).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Unsuccessful Continuity Test:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
This primitive, with the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, indicates to the CCS user that a call setup including a continuity
check is requested.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user has accepted a call setup
indication on the specified call control address (signalling interface and
circuit(s)).  When the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
primitive had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set, it indicates to the CCS user that the necessary loop back device
hass been installed on the remote end of the call control address (signalling
interface and circuit(s)).  The CCS user receiving this primitive must attach
the necessary tone generation and detection devices to the circuit(s) and
perform the continuity test.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the continuity test failed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that the continuity test
failed and that a reattempt should be made (or has been made) on another call
control address (signalling interface and circuit(s)).  This primitive is only
issued by the CCS provider if the CCS user is bound at the circuit level
rather than the circuit group or trunk group level.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Establishment Phase"
.PP
During the call establishment phase, a pair of queues has already been
associated with the call between the selected call control addresses
(signalling interface and circuit(s)) during the setup phase.  The call
establishment phase begins when the CCS provider returns a
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive (or receives a
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
primitive) in response to a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive (which had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set).  The call establishment phase also begins when the CCS user
responds with a
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
primitive (or receives a
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
primitive) in response to a
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
primitive (which had the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Upon entering the call establishment phase, it is the responsibility of the
CCS user to remove any loop back from the call control address (signalling
interface and circuit(s)) or to remove tone generation and detection devices
from the call controll address (signalling interface and circuit(s)).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Successful Call Establishment:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the call is proceeding.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the terminating user is being alerted.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the specified progress event has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that interworking has been encountered and in-band information is now
available.  This will also inform the peer CCS user that no connect indication
is pending.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONNECT_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the call control
peer that the call has been connected.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider complete the call setup.  This
primitive is used in NNI mode for interworking with UNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Call Establishment:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call control peer is
proceeding.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the terminating user is being
alerted.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the specified progress event has
occurred.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that interworking has been
encountered and in-band information is now available.  It also indicates to
the CCS user that no connect indication is pending.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CONNECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call has been connected.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call has completed setup.
This primitive is used in NNI mode for interworking with UNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Established Phase"
.PP
Flow control of the call is done by management of the queue capacity, and by
allowing objects of certain types to be inserted to the queues, as shown in
Table X.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Established Calls:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)
This primitives requests that the CCS provider temporarily suspend a call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider resume a previously suspended
call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Established Calls:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_SUSPEND_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that an established call has been
temporarily suspended.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESUME_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that a previously suspended call has
been resumed.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The sequence of primitives as shown above may remain incomplete if a
.BR CC_RESET
or
.BR CC_RELEASE
primitive occurs (see Table 3).  A CCS user must not issue a
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
primitive if no
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)
has been sent previously.  Following a reset procedure
.RB ( CC_RESET_REQ (7)
or
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)),
a CCS user may not issue a
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
to resume a call suspended before the reset procedure was signaled.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Call Termination Phase"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Reject Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Call Reject Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_REJECT_REQ (7)
This primitive indicates that the CCS user receiving the specified
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
requests that the specified call indication be rejected.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Call Reject Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_REJECT_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that the call has been
rejected.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Failure Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The call error procedure is indicated by the removal of a reattempt or failure
object (associated with a local event) from the queue.  The error procedure is
destructive with respect to other objects in the queue, and eventually results
in the emptying of queues and termination of the call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for the Call Failure Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that an event has caused the call to
fail and indicates the reason for the failure and the cause value associated
with the failure.  The CCS user is required to immediately disconnect the
circuit(s) and release the call on any previous legs using the indicated cause
value in the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Call Release Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The call release procedure is initialized by the insertion of a release object
(associated with a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7))
into the queue.  As shown in Table 3, the
release procedure is destructive with respect to other objects in the queue,
and eventually results in the emptying of queues and termination of the call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The release procedure invokes the following interactions:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
from the CCS user, followed by a
.BR CC_RELEASE_CON (7)
from the CCS provider; or
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
A
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
from the CCS provider, followed by a
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
from the CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The sequence of primitives depends on the origin of the release action.  The
sequence may be:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by one CCS user, with a request from that CCS user, leading to
interaction (A) with that CCS user and interaction (B) with the peer CCS user;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by both CCS users, with a request from each of the CCS users, leading
to interaction (A) with both CCS users;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by the CCS provider, leading to interaction (B) with both CCS users;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked independently by on CCS user and the CCS provider, leading to
interaction (A) with the originating CCS user and (B) with the peer CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for the Release Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the CCS provider release the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_RES (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user has accepted a
release indication.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for the Release Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the call has been released.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RELEASE_CON (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the release request has been
confirmed.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Circuit Management Services"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Reset Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The reset service is used by the CCS user or management to resynchronize the
use of the call, or by the CCS provider to report detected loss of a
unrecoverable call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The reset service is only applicable to the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The reset procedure invokes the following interactions:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
a
.BR CC_RESET_REQ (7)
from the CCS user, followed by a
.BR CC_RESET_CON (7)
from the CCS provider; or
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
a
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)
from the CCS provider, followed by a
.BR CC_RESET_RES (7)
from the CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The complete sequence of primitives depends upon the origin of the reset
action.  The reset service may be:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by one CCS user, leading to interaction (A) with that CCS user and
interaction (B) with the peer CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by both CCS users, leading to interaction (A) with both CCS users;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by the CCS provider, leading to interaction (B) with both CCS users;
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
invoked by one CCS user and the CCS provider, leading to interaction (A) with
the originating CCS user and (B) with the peer CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Reset Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESET_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the CCS provider reset the specified call control
address (circuit or circuit group).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESET_RES (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS provider that the CCS user has accepted a
reset indication and has performed local reset of the specified call control
address (circuit or circuit group).
.\"
.\"
.sp
Note that the
.BR CC_RESET_RES (7)
primitive is not required and is only provided for completeness.  The CCS
provider is allowed to acknowledge the reset request to the peer CCS user upon
receipt of the necessary protocol messages.  This permits automatic completion
of the reset service at the receiving CCS provider without he presence or
involvement of a management entity associated with the receiving provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Reset Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the user should reset the
specified call control address (circuit or circuit group).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_RESET_CON (7)
This primitive indicates to the CCS user that the specified call control
address (circuit or circuit group) has been successfully reset by the peer.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Blocking Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The blocking service is used by the CCS user or management to effect local
maintenance or hardware blocking on circuits, or by the CCS provider to
indicate to CCS user or management the remote maintenance or hardware blocking
of circuits.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The blocking service is only applicable to the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The blocking service provides for the local and remote blocking of call
control addresses (signalling interface and circuit or circuit group) either
for maintenance oriented or hardware failure purposes.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Blocking should only be invoked from streams which are listening on a circuit
group which include the circuits for which blocking is requested, or the
.BR CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER .
Maintenance blocking will also only be indicated on streams which are
listening on circuit group which include the circuits for which blocking is
requested, or in the absence of such a stream, the
.BR CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER .
When no stream is available to report maintenance blocking indications, the
indication should be responded to by the CCS provider without user or
management indication.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Blocking Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the specified call control address(es)
(signalling interface and circuit or circuit group) be locally blocked either
for maintenance oriented or hardware failure purposes.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_RES (7)
This primitive accepts a request and indicates the call control address(es)
(circuit or circuit group) that were remotely blocked for maintenance oriented
or hardware failure purposes.\**
.\"
.\"
.sp
Note that the
.BR CC_BLOCKING_RES (7)
primitive is not required and is only provided for completeness.  The CCS
provider is allowed to acknowledge the blocking request to the peer CCS user
upon receipt of the necessary protocol messages.  This permits automatic
completion of the blocking service at the receiving CCS provider without he
presence or involvement of a management entity associated with the receiving
provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Blocking Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the CCS user has requested that the specified
call control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit or circuit group)
be remotely blocked either for maintenance oriented or hardware failure
purposes.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_BLOCKING_CON (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user has confirmed the specified
call control address(es) (signalling interfaces and circuit or circuit group)
as locally blocked either for maintenance oriented or hardware failure
purposes
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Unblocking Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The unblocking service is only applicable to the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The unblocking service provides for the local and remote unblocking of call
control addresses (signalling interface and circuit or circuit group) either
for maintenance oriented or hardware failure purposes.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Unblocking Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ (7)
This primitive requests that the specified call control address(es)
(signalling interfaces and circuit or circuit groups) be locally unblocked
either for maintenance oriented or hardware failure purposes.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_RES (7)
This primitive accepts a request and indicates the call control address(es)
(circuit or circuit group) that were remotely unblocked for maintenance
oriented or hardware failure purposes.\**
.\"
.\"
.sp
Note that the
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_RES (7)
primitive is not required and is only provided for completeness.  The CCS
provider is allowed to acknowledge the unblocking request to the peer CCS user
upon receipt of the necessary protocol messages.  This permits automatic
completion of the unblocking service at the receiving CCS provider without he
presence or involvement of a management entity associated with the receiving
provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Unblocking Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the CCS user has requested that the specified
call control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit or circuit group)
be remotely blocked either for maintenance oriented or hardware failure
purposes.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_CON (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user has confirmed the specified
call control address(es) (signalling interfaces and circuit or circuit group)
as locally unblocked either for maintenance oriented or hardware failure
purposes.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Query Service"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The query service is only applicable to the NNI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The query service provides for the query of the remote state and blocking
level of call control addresses (signalling interface and circuit group).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I User Primitives for Query Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_QUERY_REQ (7)
This primitive request that the specified call control address(es) (signalling
interfaces and circuit group) be queried for remote state and blocking level.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_QUERY_RES (7)
This primitive accepts a request and indicates the local state and blocking
level for the previously requested specified call control addresses (circuit
group).\**
.\"
.\"
.sp
Note that the
.BR CC_QUERY_RES (7)
primitive is not required and is only provided for completeness.  The CCS
provider is allowed to acknowledge the query request to the peer CCS user upon
receipt of the necessary protocol messages.  This permits automatic completion
of the query service at the receiving CCS provider without he presence or
involvement of a management entity associated with the receiving provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I Provider Primitives for Query Service:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_QUERY_IND (7)
This primitive indicates that the CCS user has requested that the local state
and blocking level for the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit group).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR CC_QUERY_CON (7)
This primitive indicates that the remote CCS user has confirmed the specified
call control addresses (signalling interface and circuit group) and has
returned the remote state and blocking level for each address.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
