@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: bugs.texi,v 1.1.2.4 2010/08/09 17:55:04 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2010  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2010/08/09 17:55:04 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Some portions of this package are not completely implemented yet, so the bugs for those portions
are still being designed and will not be available until a later date.  Most of the package is
complete and for the most part bugs are currently available.

@table @code
@item openss7 008.  2010-08-09T17:41:46+0000
The @manpage{t_alloc(3)} function was incorrectly returning a @var{TLOOK} error when called when an
outstanding event was pending.  Thanks to John Hodgkinson at Boldon James for reporting this bug.  A
similar bug was found by inspection for @manpage{t_bind(3)}, @manpage{t_getinfo(3)},
@manpage{t_getprotaddr(3)}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.3}

@item openss7 007.  2010-06-09T12:13:41+0000
The @manpage{t_rcv(3)} function was not reseting data when the amount of data to be read was exactly
the amount of data available.  Thanks to John Hodgkinson at Boldon James for reporting this bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.3}

@item openss7 006.  2009-08-31T04:04:52+0000
A number of functions in @file{strlookup.c} were moving the found item in the hash collision list to
the head of the list; however, a number of these functions were being called with a read lock
instead of a write lock on the corresponding hash table.  This caused crashes on kernels checking
for list corruption on SMP machines under heavy open/close loads.  The movement of the found entry
to the head of the collision list has dubious performance advantages (as the hash entries are
cached).  Therefore, the practice has been removed (actually suppressed).  Thanks to Tony Abo at
HiTech for the report leading to this bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item openss7 005.  2009-06-13T03:47:32+0000
There was an @manpage{qput(9)}/@manpage{qget(9)} reference counting imbalance in the
@manpage{enter_syncq_writer(9)}, @manpage{enter_inner_syncq_func(9)} and
@manpage{enter_inner_syncq_putp(9)} functions.  The most symptomatic of these was the
@manpage{enter_inner_syncq_putp(9)} function that affected regular @manref{put(9)} and
@manref{putnext(9)} functions on synchronized modules and drivers having an inner perimeter.  The
reference imbalance resulted in leaking the module queue pair, stream head and stream head queue
pair on driver close.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item openss7 004.  2009-06-12T08:16:08+0000
@manref{qattach(9)} was taking a reference on a synchronization queue without the reference being
released in @manref{qdelete(9)}.  @manref{qdelete(9)} was fixed to release the reference taken by
@manref{setsq(9)} in @manref{qattach(9)}.  Thanks to Tony Abo at HiTech for identifying and
reporting this bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item openss7 003.  2009-04-17T11:56:06+0000

The strace, strerr daemons and the pstrlog call in the streams library were not initializing ltime
before the call to @manpage{ctime_r(3)} resulting in an epoch timestamp (Jan 1, 1970).  Thanks to
Pierre Crepieux for identifying and reporting this bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item openss7 002.  2009-03-26T07:56:40+0000

Untimeout and unbufcall did not wait until the callback returned before returning when there was a
collision between a cancellation of an event and the callback for the event.  Linux Fast-STREAMS now
makes this assurance, provided that the cancellation is not being invoked from within the same
thread as the callback (i.e. untimeout called from an ISR interrupting the callback, or, say, from
the callback itself) in which case it returns immediately.

Also, additional timer problems were encountered.  Cancelling timers from within an ISR did not have
sufficient list protection (irq suppression) potentially resulting in list corruption or queue
reference counting problem.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item openss7 001.  2008-12-16T08:17:47+0000

Somewhere about Linux kernel @samp{2.6.17}, and during the @file{openss7-0.9.2.D.rc2} master package
release, it was discovered that SLABs no longer supported the SLAB_NO_REAP flag.  Unfortunately, the
@manpage{seinfo_ctor(9)} function was assuming that the SLAB_NO_REAP flag was being recognized.
This means that over the span of some several days on system heavily using timers that a slab
corruption would eventually occur resulting in a kernel crash, particularly on x86_64 kernels.  The
@samp{seinfo} slab functions have been rewritten to not expect the SLAB_NO_REAP feature.  There was
also a minor possibility of a strevent structure identifier overlap after an extremely long period
of intensive operation, and that has been fixed as well.  Thanks to Angel Diaz for reporting this
bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{openss7-1.2.2}

@item strinet 004.  2008-10-24T08:04:16+0000
UDP and RAWIP drivers cannot receive zero-length messages in accordances with UNIX '98 and XNS 5.2.
Use the UDP2 and RAWIP2 drivers instead if this is important to you as they exhibit full UNIX '98
XNS 5.2 conformance.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strinet-0.9.2.7}

@item strcompat 008.  2008-10-19T19:57:41+0000

@manref{mi_open_link(9)} was not walking device lists correctly.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item strcompat 007.  2008-10-19T10:39:26+0000

@manref{mi_open_link(9)} was not returning the assigned device number in devp when sflag was
CLONEOPEN.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item streams 025.  2008-10-17T05:57:29+0000

@samp{putnext(q, mp)} was checking whether procedures had been turned off on queue @samp{q}.  This
was not correct as it is only the @samp{q->q_next} put procedure that would be executed.  It should
only check procedures on @samp{q->q_next}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 024.  2008-10-11T19:36:41+0000

A list delete corruption bug in the STREAMS driver and module lookup functions (e.g.
@command{__cdrv_lookup}) was discovered by the list debugging in the @cite{FC9} kernel.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 023.  2008-10-11T19:36:23+0000

Not really a bug, but newer (2.6.25) kernels no longer permit registration of binary identifiers for
sysctls (i.e. @member{ctl_name}).  The proc filesystem entries (i.e. @member{procname}) are still
permitted and @member{ctl_name} should be set to zero for these kernels.  Added a check for the
existence of symbol @manpage{sysctl_check_table(9)} to identify when binary registration is
forbidden.  Another related problem is that when binary registration of system controls is not
possible, @manref{sysctl(2)} becomes worthless.  Unfortunately, the STREAMS MIB agent was written to
use @manref{sysctl(2)} and needs to be rewritten to use the @file{/proc/sys} filesystem instead ala
@manref{sysctl(8)}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 022.  2008-10-07T18:40:25+0000

When overriding 32-bit compatability on input-output controls conflicting from the CDROM block
device with STREAMS input-output controls, the override was not properly passing CDROM input-output
controls through due to a missing break statement in the override loop.  This bug affected
pre-2.6.11 kernels, likely manifesting itself in a non-function CDROM device while STREAMS was
loaded.  Bug reported and one-line fix provided by Sylvain Chouleur for @cite{DGAC}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item strxns 003.  2008-09-03T06:10:28+0000

Over-restricted settable range of tos in @file{np_ip} driver.  Thanks to Christophe Nolibos for
reporting this bug.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strxns-0.9.2.7}

@item strnsl 004.  2008-08-20T06:02:09+0000

To permit the xnsl library to be used on systems with the broken libtirpc package, we now place the
file in /etc/netconfig.xnsl instead of /etc/netconfig where the broken libtirpc package for
GNU/Linux expects a broken /etc/netconfig configuration file.  The library has been adjusted to
first look for /etc/netconfig.xnsl before looking for /etc/netconfig.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strnsl-0.9.2.4}.

@item strss7 006.  2008-08-17T03:42:23+0000

The xnet library was discovered to contain a thread-safety bug caused by newer behaviour of
@manref{pthread_once(3)} causing the library to core dump when used on recent implementations of
pthreads (nptl).

The xnet library is no longer normally compiled as part of the @file{strss7} package.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.8}.

@item strsock 001.  2008-08-17T03:42:23+0000

The socket, socklib and sockpath libraries were discovered to contain a thread-safety bug caused by
newer behaviour of @manref{pthread_once(3)} causing the libraries to core dump when used on recent
implementations of pthreads (nptl).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strsock-0.9.2.4}.

@item strnsl 003.  2008-08-17T03:42:23+0000

The xnsl library was discovered to contain a thread-safety bug caused by newer behaviour of
@manref{pthread_once(9)} causing the library to core dump when used on recent implementations of
pthreads (nptl).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strnsl-0.9.2.4}.

@item strxnet 001.  2008-08-17T03:42:23+0000

The xnet and xnsl libraries were discovered to contain a thread-safety bug caused by newer behaviour
of @manref{pthread_once(3)} causing the libraries to core dump when used on recent implementations
of pthreads (nptl).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strxnet-0.9.2.12}.

@item strinet 003.  2008-08-02T02:58:49+0000

Some test cases are failing for the TCP driver when SELinux is set for Enforcing.  Either the
STREAMS kernel threads kstream/0, etc. need to be permitted or SELinux must be set to Permissive or
Disabled.  Conditions were added to the testsuite to expect failures on 30 specific tests when
SELinux is set to Enforcing.

@emph{*addressed*} in @command{strinet-0.9.2.7}

@item streams 021.  2008-08-01T22:32:08+0000

When flushing queues the backenable bits were not being initialized to zero in
@manpage{__flushq(9)}, resulting in back-enabling of bands (or the normal queue) was being performed
depending on the uninitialized values in the backenable bit array.  This only affected
@streamio{I_SETSIG} signals for @constant{SWRNORM} and @constant{SWBAND}, and the only when flushing
queues.  Fix properly initializes the backenable array.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 020.  2008-07-31T04:59:41+0000

Not really a bug (for @acronym{STREAMS}), but when the @file{streams.ko} kernel module is loaded,
the @mantype{crash(8)} debugger will not debug a running kernel because it finds the
@manpage{runqueues(9)} exported function in the @file{streams.ko} module instead of the the static
one from the kernel.  This has been temporarily renamed by macro to @manpage{srunqueues(9)} (notice
the leading @samp{s}) until @mantype{crash(8)} learns to do the right thing and check that the
symbol it looks up comes from the kernel instead of a kernel module.

@emph{*workaround*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 019.  2008-07-25T22:41:47+0000

When @msg{M_READ} was being issued by the Stream Head downstream an @manpage{srlock(0)} imbalance in
@manpage{strsendmread(9)} was causing soft-lockups on close for recent read-write lock
implementations on @cite{CentOS 5.2} for @samp{x86_64}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 018.  2008-07-25T01:15:26+0000

Previous fix didn't work too good: returning @errno{EAGAIN} when hung-up on @manref{getmsg(2)},
@manref{getpmsg(2)}, @manref{read(2)}, @manref{readv(2)} instead of 0 and terminal end of file.
This caused a regression on four or five other test cases.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item strcompat 006.  2008-07-11T13:52:04+0000

lis_alloc_sem() was not setting the supplied count against the created semaphore, but was alway
setting the semaphore to 1 (unlocked).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item strcompat 005.  2008-05-26T14:06:22+0000

lis_register_strdev() was failing whenever nminor was greater than zero or not an even multiple of
256.  This was due to an error in the logic checking for multiple majors.  (Thanks to Omer Tunali
for reporting this bug.)

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item streams 017.  2008-04-10T15:17:30+0000

When @msg{M_DATA} is sent upstream followed by @msg{M_HANGUP}, @manref{read(2s)} is returning zero
(0) and not permitting the data associated with the @msg{M_DATA} to be read.  This is a bug per
documentation.  @manref{read(2s)} should operate as normal following a hangup until all data is read
and then return zero (0).

The difficulty is that when waking up from a read sleep or when entering read the hangup condition
was generating an internal @errno{ESTRPIPE} error.  This was altered so that @errno{ESTRPIPE} is
only returned during the hangup condition after the read queue has been tested and the caller is
about to sleep on read.

Test cases 3.2.1, 3.5.1 and 3.6.1 in the test-streams test suite executable were altered to validate
the fix for this case and curtail regressions.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 016.  2007-11-14T17:23:57+0000

Read is blocking when data has been read, @constant{O_NONBLOCK} and @constant{O_NDELAY} unset,
@constant{RFILL} unset, in non-SVR4 mode.  This violates POSIX specifications.

Test case 3.1.11.4 in the test-streams test suite executable was generated to validate the fix for
this case and to curtail regressions.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item streams 015.  2007-11-14T17:19:01+0000

Dynamic allocation of major device numbers is not working on recent 2.6 kernels.  Someone slipped
some code in the kernel to have @manref{register_chrdev(9)} allocate from major 255 down (again).
Changed code to allocate modid according to our own rules and then request the same for a major
device number.  This also ensures that module ID and major are the same.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.4}

@item strchan 001.  2007-10-15T16:17:08+0000

Removing definition of @manref{freezestr(9)} and @manref{unfreezestr(9)} in ch_pmod.c and mx_pmod.c
was causing loss of version information on old 2.4 kernels.  Workaround is to use the _SUN versions
as is until it can be fixed in streams or strcompat.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strchan-0.9.2.4}

@item strsctp 007.  2007-07-21T21:06:48-0600

It was discovered that many network devices were claiming to have hardware checksum capability by
setting the @var{NETIF_HW_CSUM} flag, but did not support SCTP checksum offload.

@emph{*workaround*} in @command{strsctp-0.9.2.8}

The workaround is to ignore the flag for now.  Either Linux network drivers need to start supporting
SCTP checksum when they set the @var{NETIF_HW_CSUM} flag, or there needs to be some flag provided
for SCTP.  The workaround is to not believe that the driver does SCTP checksum offload when
@var{NETIF_HW_CSUM} is set.

@item strsctp 006.  2007-07-21T21:05:10-0600

It was detected that the @var{XTI_SNDBUF} and @var{XTI_RCVBUF} options were not being set correctly
(in fact, not being set at all).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strsctp-0.9.2.8}

@var{XTI_SNDBUF} now limits the maximum available send window.  @var{XTI_RCVBUF} now alters the
advertized receive window.

@item openss7 002.  2007-07-21T17:26:01-0600

It was reported that validation test suites for XEN kernels are failing.  XEN kernels are,
therefore, not supported.  (Thanks to Bryan Shupe at Flying J for reporting this bug.)

@emph{*noted*} in @command{openss7-0.9.2.G}

@item strcompat 004.  2007-07-21T17:26:01-0600

It was reported that, even with the fix below, validation test suites for XEN kernels are failing.
XEN kernels are, therefore, not supported.  (Thanks to Bryan Shupe at Flying J for reporting this
bug.)

@emph{*noted*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

@item strcompat 003.  2007-07-21T17:22:10-0600

It was reported that paddr_t is already defined in recent XEN kernels, causing compile to fail for
these kernels.  (Thanks to Bryan Shupe at Flying J for reporting this bug.)

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

A check was added to the configure script to check for the existence of paddr_t.

@item strss7 005.  2007-07-21T17:15:02-0600

It was discovered that recent kernel on RHAS4 are defining irq_handler_t but have the old 3 argument
function template for irq handlers.  The detection logic assumed that if irq_hander_t existed, that
the newer 2 argument function template for irq handlers were in effect.  This caused builds to fail
on these RHAS4 kernels.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.8.rc1}.

A check was added to the configure script to test whether the irq_handler_t has the newer 2 argument
template.

@item strcompat 002.  2007-07-21T17:15:02-0600

It was discovered that recent kernel on RHAS4 are defining irq_handler_t but have the old 3 argument
function template for irq handlers.  The detection logic assumed that if irq_hander_t existed, that
the newer 2 argument function template for irq handlers were in effect.  This caused builds to fail
on these RHAS4 kernels.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

A check was added to the configure script to test whether the irq_handler_t has the newer 2 argument
template.

@item openss7 001.  2007-06-27T08:53:51+0000

A report was made by Chris from Sandia that the build process choked on building 32-bit libraries
and applications on an x86_64 system under Ubuntu Fiesty (7.04).  While most other distributions
include the @command{gcc} 32-bit compatibility libraries for 64-bit architectures with a 32-bit
emulation mode, Ubuntu (and maybe Debian too) does not.  The Ubuntu 7.04 package that is missing is
the @file{lib32gcc1} package.  There are two workarounds to this difficulty: add the
@file{lib32gcc1} package (with apt), or add the @samp{--disable-32bit-libs} flag to
@samp{configure}.

@emph{*noted*} in @command{openss7-0.9.2.G}

@item strnsl 002.  2007-06-20T15:22:19-0600

The libtirpc package for current releases of GNU/Linux including NFS4 has usurped a broken
/etc/netconfig file for use by its broken implementation of TI-RPC.  So when strnsl and more
importantly the strinet package installs its /etc/netconfig entries, the libtirpc package breaks.
To avoid this problem, I think that the best approach is to install a libtirpc entry (or a copy of
the broken /etc/netconfig) into the /etc/netconfig.d subdirectory when strnsl installs and restore
it to /etc/netconfig when strnsls removes.

Fixed in the current release: the actual fix involves not calculating the /etc/netconfig file from
the /etc/netconfig.d subdirectory entries when an /etc/netconfig file exists that we have not
generated.

@item strsctp 005.  2007-05-18T07:06:33+0000

Found the most obnoxious of bugs.  When testing on loopback, more than 255 calls were being made to
@manref{dupb(9)} causing the @var{db_ref} field of the data block to wrap to zero, causing an
incorrect reference count.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strsctp-0.9.2.7}

@item streams 014.  2007-05-17T21:48:24+0000

The @manref{dupb(9)} utility had an obnoxious bug where it permitted the @member{db_ref} count to
wrap to zero, causing buffer allocation and freeing problems.  This was very difficult to debug.
@manref{dupb(9)} now fails if the reference count has reached 255.  When @manref{dupb(9)} fails, the
user should check if the reference count has reached 255, and if it has, attempt a deep
@manref{copyb(9)} instead.  At some point it might be useful to have STREAMS do the deep copy
automatically.  This was discovered in @file{strsctp} loopback tests where message blocks are
rapidly duplicated for retransmission.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 013.  2007-05-17T21:48:06+0000

The log driver, strace, strerr and strclean utilities had some bugs.  The @file{strsctp} driver now
makes extensive use of @manref{strlog(9)} trace and error logging and the log driver and utilities
have been corrected.  These facilities are now production grade.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 012.  2007-04-13T01:47:30+0000

It appears that @cite{Ubuntu 6.10} has a rather broken implementation of the LSB
@command{install_init} that has been inherited from Debian (a python script, none the less).  This
implementation refuses to properly install a disabled service (one with an empty or missing
Default-Start: tag), but, rather invokes updated-rc.d in such a way that the init script is started
at runlevels @samp{2 3 4 5} instead.  This was causing problems with the strace and strerr services
which are normally installed disabled.

This uncovered the fact that the Debian-style init scripts were not working anyway.  The scripts
have been fixed and the strace and strerr utilities now default to enabled.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 011.  2007-04-10T10:56:42+0000

The strbcflag flag was never being cleared, causing infinite looping of the scheduler once the
maximum number of buffers was reached.  This also revealed a problem that bufcalls were being run
unncecessarily (when strbcwait was set, instead of only when strbcflag was set).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 010.  2007-04-10T10:55:29+0000

The stream event sequence number was wrapping and becoming larger than the event mask resulting in
inability to cancel buffer callbacks and timeouts.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item strxns 002.  2007-04-02T13:04:36+0000

Option handling bug in @file{ldltest}.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strxns-0.9.2.6}

@item streams 009.  2007-04-02T11:57:35+0000

@file{ldl} was using an incorrect MKDEV command, but when the Stream head attempted to redirect the
open to the new (mangled) major device number, it properly returned ENXIO, but did not release a
reference to the module.  Need to check code paths for this to see where the reference needed to be
released.

@emph{*known bug*}

@item strxns 001.  2007-04-02T11:52:59+0000

@file{ldl} was not demand loading for 2.6 kernels due to missing MODULE_ALIAS declarations.  Also,
@file{ldl} had an incorrect SVR 3 style @samp{MKDEV(MAJOR(*devp), i)} construct in it that was using
Linux utilities instead of Linux Fast-STREAMS utilities, causing the Stream head to attempt to
redirect the major device.  Unfortunalely, this was failing.  Changed to the correct SVR 4 style
@samp{makedevice(getmajor(*devp), i)}.  (There must still be a bad major redirection path in the
Stream head.)

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strxns-0.9.2.6}

@item streams 008.  2007-03-31T05:33:29-0600

When loosening SMP locking, found a bug in the QWANTR handling in @manref{getq(9)} and back-enabling
in @manref{flushq(9)} and @manref{flushband(9)}.  Both of these were generating false back-enables.
The @manref{getq(9)} was generating a @emph{lot} of false back-enables.  Whenever @manref{getq(9)}
found an empty queue it was not only setting QWANTR, but it was back-enabling the queue.  The result
is that if service procedures are used exclusively (that is, @manpage{qi_put(9)} always does a
@manref{putq(9)}), @manref{getq(9)} would generate a false back-enable for each message.  Also, the
enabled queue would generate another false back-enable.  Significant performance gains should be
noticed.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 007.  2007-03-16T17:33:20-0600

@iftex
J@'er@'emy
@end iftex
@ifnottex
Jérémy
@end ifnottex
Compostella pointed out an error in @manpage{strallocpmsg(9)} where it was always assigining
M_PCPROTO to messages created with I_FDINSERT.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.3}

@item streams 006.  2007-03-14T23:48:26-0600

There appears to be an inode lock imbalance that occurred for several clone error paths in stropen.
If the returned major device number does not correspond to a driver, or an snode cannot be acquired
for the new entry and the stream head reparented.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.2}

@item strsctp 004.  2007-03-14T17:36:31-0600

Another bug found, a double buffer free in @manpage{sctp_recv_msg(9)} when calling
@manpage{sctp_rcv_ootb(9)}.  This bug was discovered during verification testing on a high speed SMP
machine.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strsctp-0.9.2.7}

@item strss7 004.  2007-03-13T23:36:37-0600 (@command{x400p-ss7/5766})

Older chips were not being recognized correctly either.  Reflected device table and a few missing
break statements was the cause.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.6}

@item strss7 003.  2007-03-13T02:40:38-0600 (@command{x400p-ss7/5766})

It appears that V401PE cards were almost loading (configuring, mapping, downloading firmware) but
were failing to configure at the final stage of the process (matching device id to board type).
The device id for the 2155 is supposed to be b4 regardless of E1 or T1, but I just guess that the
card is reporting 34 instead of b4 for E1 (it might be the firmware setting or unsetting the high
bit as was done for the other devices).  I changed the sl_x400p.c driver to print error messages
when loading if such mismatches occur and set the device ids to accept 0x3X as an E1 2155 device and
0bX as a T1/J1 2155 device (even though they are all the same).

As it turns out, the V401PE cards have a DS2156 chip instead of a DS2155 chip.  The only difference
is the lack of Tx fixed gain control (register 0x7d) and the DS2156 supports a UTOPIA II bus that is
not used on the V401PE.  I changed the driver to recognize the DS2156 and skip register 0x7d when it
exists.  The DS2156 chip will work for both V401T (D33D) and V401E (D44D) cards.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.6}

@item strsctp 003.  2007-03-10T05:59:10-0700

One serious locking problem discovered.  @manpage{sctp_cleanup_read(9)} was suppressing IRQs across
calls to @manref{putnext(9)} when delivering data and acknowledgements.  Recent kernels on Fedora
and Ubuntu were complaining about IRQs suppressed across calls to @manpage{local_bh_enable(9)} in
M2PA and that is what lead to the discovery.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strsctp-0.9.2.7}

@item strtty 001.  2007-03-09T15:31:23-0700

The package was installing /dev/ptmx and /dev/pts/n device and removing them when uninstalling.
This caused havoc with Linux's UNIX'95 pseudo-terminal devices.  They have been strapped out until
later.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strtty-0.9.2.2}

@item sigtran 001.  2007-03-08T21:09:59-0700

The inital timeout values associated with a freshly pushed M2PA module were being set to HZ based
values instead of milliseconds.  This did not affect the test program (which explicitly sets the
values), but could have affected applications programs on systems where the tick clock is 100 Hz.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{sigtran-0.9.2.2}

@item strss7 002.  2007-03-08T21:05:47-0700

Timers were message up (using HZ instead of milliseconds) on the X400P driver.  This did not affect
architectures with 1000 HZ or 1024 HZ tick clocks, but 100 HZ systems object.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.6}

@item streams 005.  2007-03-07T15:53:06-0700

Demand loading of kernel modules for clone devices opened, for example, as /dev/streams/clone/mux
was requesting module streams-clone-mux and /dev/streams/clone/mux but was not requesting
streams-mux or /dev/streams/mux and the modules were failing to demand load.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.2}

@item strss7 001. 2007-03-05T15:58:14-0700

For some reason the package was always building and installing the @file{libxnet} texinfo document
which was keeping the RPM from installing after the @file{strxnet} package.  This was fixed in
@file{doc/manual/Makefile.am} with the addition of a @samp{WITH_XNET} conditional.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strss7-0.9a.6}

@item strinet 002.  2007-03-05T01:24:13-0700
RPMs built on 2.4 kernels have using the @samp{%dev} construct for RPM instead of installing devices
using the init scripts.  RPM complains loudly because the dev package defines some of the same iBCS
devices (e.g. @file{/dev/ipip}) as we are attempting to install.  In the meantime, use --force.

Fixed in @file{strinet.spec} to never build devices ala rpm for strinet package.

@item strnsl 001.  2007-03-05T01:21:21-0700
RPMs built on 2.4 kernels install the @samp{include strnsl} line to @file{modules.conf} when there
is no such directory installed by any of the rpms.  This means that @command{depmod} complains
loudly about the missing directory.  This was fixed for the current release.

@item streams 004. 2007-02-26T08:25:09-0700

@iftex
J@'er@'emy
@end iftex
@ifnottex
Jérémy
@end ifnottex
Compostella pointed out error in clone.c.  When an automatic clone minor device was unregistered, it
was unregistering the modid instead of the major number.  This was not noticed because all OpenSS7
drivers have the same modid as major number (strconf does this automatically).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.2}

@item streams 003. 2007-02-26T08:25:09-0700

@iftex
J@'er@'emy
@end iftex
@ifnottex
Jérémy
@end ifnottex
Compostella pointed out syntax error in strsched.c that kept synqs from compiling properly.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.9.2.2}

@item strcompat 001.  2007-01-12T11:40:15-0600

A bug in the @manpage{mi_copyout(9)} function was discovered by inspection.  The function should
complete the last stage of a non-TRANSPARENT input-output control operation by returning an
@manpage{M_IOCACK(9)} message, but did not.  This was fixed for release @file{0.9.2.5}.

@item strsctp test-sctp_n -o 9.1 Sun, 29 Oct 2006 16:27:35 -0700
@itemx test-sctp_n -o 9.2 Sun, 29 Oct 2006 16:27:35 -0700

When the number of test packets is set to 300, we are crashing on high speed SMP HT box.  This seems
to be a locking problem of sorts, or some flow control race condition.  For now, the number of test
packets, TEST_PACKETS has been reduced from 300 to 30 to avoid the crash.  Again, packet tests at IP
level should reveal this problem.

Note that there does not seem to be a problem with similar TPI tests, so the problem might be NPI
interface related after all.

@item strsctp test-sctp_n -o 7.1 Sun, 15 Oct 2006 06:22:05 -0600

I notice that when the message size in this test is larger than the receive window size on the
receiver, the receiver aborts the association after its window fills.  If the message size is
reduced to just beneath the receive window size, the test case succeeds.  So, it looks like we are
not handling zero window probes very well at all.  For now I have just reduced the message size as
this is for interface testing not packet testing.  Packet tests at IP level should reveal this
problem.

@item streams 002. 2006-09-24T20:02:00+0000

Discovered asynchronous thread cancellation inconsistencies in libLiS libpLiS by inspection during
documentation.  @manref{isastream(2)}, @manref{fattach(2)} were not performing proper asynchronous
thread cancellation suppression so that these function contained a cancellation point when the
should not.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.7a.6.rc3}

@item streams 001. 2006-07-05T21:54:49+0000

Fedora Core 5 reports a rwlock bug during udp module unloading as follows:

@example
BUG: rwlock wrong CPU on CPU#0, rmmod/7515
Call Trace:
  @{rwlock_bug+100@}
  @{_raw_write_unlock+88@}
  @{:streams:unregister_strnod+211@}
  @{:streams:unregister_clone+64@}
  @{:streams:unregister_strdev+24@}
  @{:streams_udp:udpterminate+26@}
  @{sys_delete_module+406@}
  @{system_call+126@}
@end example

It appears that @manref{unregister_strnod(9)} is scheduling while holding a write lock on
cdevsw_lock.  This is probably in @manref{iput(9)} called within cmin_del.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{streams-0.7a.6.rc2}

There were a number of places where sleeping functions were called with spin-locks held, causing the
CPU awaking from the sleep to sometimes be different from the CPU that took the lock.  This was
buggy, so I reworked all of these cdev and fmod sections to handle spin locks properly.  FC5/SMP on
HT no longer reports these bugs.

@item strinet 001.
Several test cases are failing sending messages.  ICMP port unreachable errors are resulting.  It
appears that the caching of destination addresses is somehow making the receiver think that it is a
connection-oriented stream!

@end table
