@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) doc/manual/configure.texi
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c

@c This file is include from install.texi and contains the descriptions for
@c package-specific enable/disable and with/without options

The following @command{configure} options, specific to the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}, are available:

@table @command

@item --disable-streams-irq
@opindex streams-irq
Disables STREAMS irq suppression.  Normally the STREAMS scheduler protects itself and its
datastructures from races due to hard interrupts by suppressing interrupts during critical sections.
As not all drivers and modules contain hard interrupts, this option allows hard interrupts to be
enabled while running critical sections.  The purpose of this option was primarily for profiling.
The default is to enable STREAMS irq suppression.

@item --disable-streams-stats
@opindex streams-stats
Disable STREAMS statistics counting.  Normally the STREAMS scheduler will automatically count the
number of entries to open, close, put and service procedures for a queue pair whenever the
@type{module_stats} structure is defined and attached to the @type{qinit} structure by the module or
driver.  This is not exact SVR4.2 MP behaviour (where it is the responsibility of the module or
drive to perform these counts).  This option disables the feature.  The default is to enable STREAMS
statistics counting.

@item --disable-streams-syncqs
@opindex streams-syncqs
Disable STREAMS synchronization queues.  Normally the STREAMS scheduler will permit modules and
drivers that are written for syncrhonization (such as SVR4.2 MP synchronization, Solaris perimeters,
etc.) and will perform synchronization protection for these modules.  This option disables
synchronization queues.  When disabled, only fully multiprocessor safe drivers and modules (marked
with the D_MP flag), will be loaded.  The default is to enable STREAMS synchronization queues.

@item --disable-streams-utils
@opindex streams-utils
Disable additional STREAMS utilities.  Normally @command{strsetup} and @command{strload} utility
configuration files are included in the build and installed.  This option disables build and
installation of the @command{strsetup} and @command{strload} configuration files.  The default is to
enable additional STREAMS utilities.

@item --disable-big-compile
@opindex big-compile
Disable compilation as one big computational unit.
The default is to build as one big computational unit.
Do not use this option.

@item --enable-streams-fifos
@opindex streams-fifos
Enable overriding of system FIFOs with STREAMS-based FIFOs.
The default is to not override system FIFOs with STREAMS-based FIFOs.

@item --with-streams-kthreads
@opindex streams-kthreads
Set STREAMS kernel thread operation to @var{nice}, @var{normal}, @var{rt} or @var{no}.  When set to
@var{nice}, the STREAMS scheduler will be based on kernel threads that run with a @samp{nice -19}
priority.  When set to @var{normal}, the STREAMS scheduler sill be based on kernel threas thar run
with @samp{nice -0} priority.  When set to @var{rt}, the STREAMS scheduler will be based on kernel
threads that run with real-time priority @samp{nice -99}.  When set to @var{no}, soft-interrupts
will be used for the STREAMS scheduler rather than kernel threads.  This option was primarily for
performance testing.  Do no use this option.  The default STREAMS kernel thread pirority is
@var{nice}.

@item --enable-module-sth
@itemx --disable-module-sth
@opindex module-sth
Enables or disables the @file{sth} (Stream head) module.  When enabled, the @file{sth} module will
be compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{sth} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{sth} module will cause all Streams to fail.  The
default is for the @file{sth} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-srvmod
@itemx --disable-module-srvmod
@opindex module-srvmod
Enables or disables the @file{srvmod} module.  When enabled, the @file{srvmod} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{srvmod} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{srvmod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{srvmod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-nullmod
@itemx --disable-module-nullmod
@opindex module-nullmod
Enables or disables the @file{nullmod} module.  When enabled, the @file{nullmod} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{nullmod} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{nullmod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{nuls} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-pipemod
@itemx --disable-module-pipemod
@opindex module-pipemod
Enables or disables the @file{pipemod} module.  When enabled, the @file{pipemod} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{pipemod} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{pipemod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{pipemod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-connld
@itemx --disable-module-connld
@opindex module-connld
Enables or disables the @file{connld} module.  When enabled, the @file{connld} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{connld} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{connld} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{connld} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-sc
@itemx --disable-module-sc
@opindex module-sc
Enables or disables the @file{sc} module.  When enabled, the @file{sc} module will be compiled into
the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{sc} module will not be included at all.
Note that disabling the @file{sc} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default is for
the @file{sc} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-testmod
@itemx --disable-module-testmod
@opindex module-testmod
Enables or disables the @file{testmod} module.  When enabled, the @file{testmod} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{testmod} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{testmod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{testmod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-timod
@itemx --disable-module-timod
@opindex module-timod
Enables or disables the @file{timod} module.  When enabled, the @file{timod} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{timod} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{timod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{timod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-tirdwr
@itemx --disable-module-tirdwr
@opindex module-tirdwr
Enables or disables the @file{tirdwr} module.  When enabled, the @file{tirdwr} module will be
compiled into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{tirdwr} module will not be
included at all.  Note that disabling the @file{tirdwr} module will cause conformance suites to fail.
The default is for the @file{tirdwr} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-bufmod
@itemx --disable-module-bufmod
@opindex module-bufmod
Enables or disables the @file{bufmod} module.  When enabled, the @file{bufmod} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{bufmod} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{bufmod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{bufmod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-pfmod
@itemx --disable-module-pfmod
@opindex module-pfmod
Enables or disables the @file{pfmod} module.  When enabled, the @file{pfmod} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{pfmod} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{pfmod} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{pfmod} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-nbuf
@itemx --disable-module-nbuf
@opindex module-nbuf
Enables or disables the @file{nbuf} module.  When enabled, the @file{nbuf} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{nbuf} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{nbuf} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{nbuf} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-module-pf
@itemx --disable-module-pf
@opindex module-pf
Enables or disables the @file{pf} module.  When enabled, the @file{pf} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{pf} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{pf} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{pf} module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-clone
@itemx --disable-driver-clone
@opindex driver-clone
Enables or disables the @file{clone} module.  When enabled, the @file{clone} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{clone} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{clone} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{clone} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-echo
@itemx --disable-driver-echo
@opindex driver-echo
Enables or disables the @file{echo} module.  When enabled, the @file{echo} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{echo} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{echo} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{echo} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-fifo
@itemx --disable-driver-fifo
@opindex driver-fifo
Enables or disables the @file{fifo} module.  When enabled, the @file{fifo} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{fifo} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{fifo} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{fifo} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-log
@itemx --disable-driver-log
@opindex driver-log
Enables or disables the @file{log} module.  When enabled, the @file{log} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{log} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{log} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{log} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-loop
@itemx --disable-driver-loop
@opindex driver-loop
Enables or disables the @file{loop} module.  When enabled, the @file{loop} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{loop} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{loop} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{loop} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-nsdev
@itemx --disable-driver-nsdev
@opindex driver-nsdev
Enables or disables the @file{nsdev} module.  When enabled, the @file{nsdev} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{nsdev} module will not be included
at all.  Note that disabling the @file{nsdev} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The
default is for the @file{nsdev} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-mux
@itemx --disable-driver-mux
@opindex driver-mux
Enables or disables the @file{mux} module.  When enabled, the @file{mux} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{mux} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{mux} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{mux} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-nuls
@itemx --disable-driver-nuls
@opindex driver-nuls
Enables or disables the @file{nuls} module.  When enabled, the @file{nuls} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{nuls} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{nuls} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{nuls} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-pipe
@itemx --disable-driver-pipe
@opindex driver-pipe
Enables or disables the @file{pipe} module.  When enabled, the @file{pipe} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{pipe} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{pipe} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{pipe} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-sad
@itemx --disable-driver-sad
@opindex driver-sad
Enables or disables the @file{sad} module.  When enabled, the @file{sad} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{sad} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{sad} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{sad} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-sfx
@itemx --disable-driver-sfx
@opindex driver-sfx
Enables or disables the @file{sfx} module.  When enabled, the @file{sfx} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{sfx} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{sfx} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{sfx} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-driver-spx
@itemx --disable-driver-spx
@opindex driver-spx
Enables or disables the @file{spx} module.  When enabled, the @file{spx} module will be compiled
into the @file{streams} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{spx} module will not be included at
all.  Note that disabling the @file{spx} module will cause conformance suites to fail.  The default
is for the @file{spx} driver to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-os7
@itemx --disable-compat-os7
@opindex compat-os7
Enables or disables the @file{os7} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{os7} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{os7}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{os7} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-svr3
@itemx --disable-compat-svr3
@opindex compat-svr3
Enables or disables the @file{svr3} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{svr3}
compatibility module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the
@file{svr3} compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{svr3}
compatibility module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-svr4
@itemx --disable-compat-svr4
@opindex compat-svr4
Enables or disables the @file{svr4} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{svr4}
compatibility module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the
@file{svr4} compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{svr4}
compatibility module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-mps
@itemx --disable-compat-mps
@opindex compat-mps
Enables or disables the @file{mps} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{mps} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{mps}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{mps} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-sol8
@itemx --disable-compat-sol8
@opindex compat-sol8
Enables or disables the @file{sol8} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{sol8}
compatibility module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the
@file{sol8} compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{sol8}
compatibility module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-uw7
@itemx --disable-compat-uw7
@opindex compat-uw7
Enables or disables the @file{uw7} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{uw7} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{uw7}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{uw7} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-osf
@itemx --disable-compat-osf
@opindex compat-osf
Enables or disables the @file{osf} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{osf} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{osf}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{osf} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-aix
@itemx --disable-compat-aix
@opindex compat-aix
Enables or disables the @file{aix} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{aix} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{aix}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{aix} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-hpux
@itemx --disable-compat-hpux
@opindex compat-hpux
Enables or disables the @file{hpux} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{hpux}
compatibility module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the
@file{hpux} compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{hpux}
compatibility module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-irix
@itemx --disable-compat-irix
@opindex compat-irix
Enables or disables the @file{irix} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{irix}
compatibility module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the
@file{irix} compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{irix}
compatibility module to be created as a separate module.

@item --enable-compat-mac
@itemx --disable-compat-mac
@opindex compat-mac
Enables or disables the @file{mac} compatibility module.  When enabled, the @file{mac} compatibility
module will be compiled into the @file{stream} kernel module; when disabled, the @file{mac}
compatibility module will not be included at all.  The default is for the @file{mac} compatibility
module to be created as a separate module.

@item --disable-xti-servtype
@opindex xti-servtype
Disables XTI service type checks in the XTI/TLI Library.  Normally, the XTI/TLI Library will check
for the service type of the endpoint and will reject commands that are not defined for the
corresponding service type.  When enabled, this option causes the XTI/TLI Library to simply issue
the corresponding primitive to the underlying driver and to allow the driver to determine whether
the primitive is supported.  The default is for the XTI/TLI Library to check for XTI service type.

@item --disable-xti-states
@opindex xti-states
Disables XTI state checks in the XTI/TLI Library.  Normally the XTI/TLI Library will check for the
state of the endpoint and will reject commands that would place the interface out of state.  When
enabled, this option causes the XTI/TLI Library to simply issue the corresponding primitive to the
underlying driver and to allow the driver to determine whether the interface is out of state.  The
default is for the XTI/TLI Library to check for XTI state.

@item --enable-sctp-slow-verification
@opindex sctp-slow-verification
Enable slow verification of addresses and tags.  When a message comes from an SCTP endpoint with the
correct verification tag, it is not necessary to check whether it is from a correct source address
to identify the SCTP association to which it belongs.  When you disable this feature
(@command{--disable-sctp-slow-verification}), source addresses are not checked and it is up to
firewall implementations to thwart attackers of the verification tag.  When you enable this feature
(@command{--enable-sctp-slow-verification}), you get RFC 2960 compliant operation, but at great cost
to SCTP performance.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --enable-sctp-throttle-heartbeats
@opindex sctp-throttle-heartbeats
Enable heartbeat throttling.  Special feature of @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} that is not mentioned in RFC
2960.  When you enable this feature (@command{--enable-sctp-throttle-heartbeats}),
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will throttle the rate at which it responds to heartbeats to the system
control @var{heartbeat_interval}.  This makes SCTP more resilient to implementations which flood
heartbeat messages.  For RFC 2960 compliant operation, disable this feature
(@command{--disable-sctp-throttle-heartbeats}).  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --enable-sctp-discard-ootb
@opindex sctp-discard-ootb
Enable discard of out-of-the-blue packets.  RFC 2960 requires the implementation to send
@code{ABORT} to some OOTB packets (packets for which no SCTP association exists).  Sending
@code{ABORT} chunks to unverified source addresses with the T bit set opens SCTP to blind masquerade
attacks.  Not sending them may lead to delays at the peer endpoint aborting associations where our
@code{ABORT} has been lost and the socket is already closed or if we have restarted and the peer
still has open associations to us.  If you enable this feature
(@command{--enable-sctp-discard-ootb}), SCTP will discard all OOTB packets.  This is necessary if
another SCTP stack is being run on the same machine.  Therefore, if the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
package is included on an OpenSS7 SCTP kernel, this feature is automatically enabled.  For RFC 2960
compliant operation, disable this feature (@command{--disable-sctp-discard-ootb}).  This option
defaults to @samp{disabled} for non-OpenSS7 SCTP kernels, and @samp{enabled} for OpenSS7 SCTP
kernels.

@item --enable-sctp-extended-ip-support
@opindex sctp-extended-ip-support
Enable extended IP support for SCTP.  This provides extended IP support for SCTP for things like IP
Transparent Proxy and IP Masquerading.  This is experimental stuff.  If in doubt, disable this
feature (@command{--disable-sctp-extended-ip-support}).  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-hmac-sha1
@opindex sctp-hmac-sha1
Disable SHA-1 HMAC.  This provides the ability to use the FIPS 180-1 (SHA-1) message authentication
code in SCTP cookies.  If you enable this feature (@command{--enable-sctp-hmac-sha1}), when the
appropriate sysctl is set, SCTP will use the SHA-1 HMAC when signing cookies in the @code{INIT-ACK}
chunk.  If disable this feature (@command{--disable-sctp-hmac-sha1}), the SHA-1 HMAC will be
unavailable for use with SCTP.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled} on big-endian architectures,
and @samp{disabled} otherwise.

@item --disable-sctp-hmac-md5
@opindex sctp-hmac-md5
Disable MD5 HMAC.  This provides the ability to use the MD5 (RFC 1321) message authentication code
in SCTP cookies.  If you enable this feature (@command{--enable-sctp-hmac-md5}), when the
appropriate sysctl is set, SCTP will use the MD5 HMAC when signing cookies in the INIT ACK chunk.
If you disable this feature (@command{--disable-sctp-hmac-md5}), the MD5 HMAC will be unavailable
for use with SCTP.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled} on little-endian architectures, and
@samp{disabled} otherwise.

@item --enable-sctp-adler32
@opindex sctp-adler32
Enable Adler32 checksum.  This provides the ability to use the older RFC 2960 Adler32 checksum.  If
CONFIG_SCTP_CRC_32 below is not selected, the Adler32 checksum is always provided.  This option
defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-crc32c
@opindex sctp-crc32c
Disable CRC-32C checksum.  This provides the ability to use the newer CRC-32c checksum as described
in RFC 3309.  When this is selected and CONFIG_SCTP_ADLER_32 is not selected above, then the only
checksum that will be used is the CRC-32c checksum.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-sctp-throttle-passiveopens
@opindex sctp-throttle-passiveopens
Enable throttling of passive opens.  Special feature of Linux SCTP not mentioned in RFC 2960.  When
secure algorithms are used for signing cookies, the implementation becomes vulnerable to INIT and
@code{COOKIE-ECHO} flooding.  If you enable this feature
(@command{--enable-sctp-throttle-passiveopens}), SCTP will only allow one INIT and one
@code{COOKIE-ECHO} to be processed in each interval corresponding to the sysctl sctp_throttle_itvl.
Setting sctp_throttle_itvl to 0 defeats this function.  If you disable this feature
(@command{--disable-sctp-throttle-passiveopens}), each INIT and @code{COOKIE-ECHO} will be
processed.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-ecn
@opindex sctp-ecn
Enable explicit congestion notification.  This enables support for Explicit Congestion Notification
(ECN) chunks in SCTP messages as defined in RFC 2960 and RFC 3168.  It also adds syctl
(/proc/net/ipv4/sctp_ecn) which allows ECN for SCTP to be disabled at runtime.  This option defaults
to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-lifetimes
@opindex sctp-lifetimes
Enable SCTP message lifetimes.  This enables support for message lifetimes as described in RFC 2960.
When enabled, message lifetimes can be set on messages.  See sctp(7).  This feature is always
enabled when Partial Reliability Support is set.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-add-ip
@opindex sctp-add-ip
Enable ADD-IP.  This enables support for ADD-IP as described in draft-ietf-tsvwg-addip-sctp-07.txt.
This allows the addition and removal of IP addresses from existing connections.  This is
experimental stuff.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-adaptation-layer-info
@opindex sctp-adaptation-layer-info
Enable ALI.  This enables support for the Adaptation Layer Information parameter described in
draft-ietf-tsvwg-addip-sctp-07.txt for communicating application layer information bits at
initialization.  This is experimental stuff.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-partial-reliability
@opindex sctp-partial-reliability
Enable SCTP Partial Reliability (PR-SCTP).  This enables support for PR-SCTP as described in
draft-stewart-tsvwg-prsctp-03.txt.  This allows for partial reliability of message delivery on a
"timed reliability" basis.  This is experimental stuff.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-sctp-error-generator
@opindex sctp-error-generator
Disable the SCTP error generator.  This provides an internal error generator that can be accessed
with socket options for testing SCTP operation under packet loss.  You will need this option to run
some of the test programs distributed with the SCTP module.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --without-ip
@opindex ip
Remove the second generation IP driver from the build.
The default is to include the second generation IP driver in the build.

@item --without-udp
@opindex udp
Remove the second generation UDP driver from the build.
The default is to include the second generation UDP driver in the build.

@item --without-raw
@opindex raw
Remove the second generation RAWIP driver from the build.
The default is to include the second generation RAWIP driver in the build.

@item --without-tcp
@opindex tcp
Remove the second generation TCP driver from the build.
The default is to include the second generation TCP driver in the build.

@item --with-sctp
@opindex sctp
Enable the version 1 driver in the build.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --without-sctp2
@opindex sctp2
Enable the Release 2 driver in the build.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@end table

