@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================

This is the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  It contains all of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}
release code.  This is the only package released by the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

The package contains all of the former subpackages of the OpenSS7 Master
Package, including:

@multitable @columnfractions 0.05 0.95
@item @tab @bullet{} Linux Fast-STREAMS
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Compatibility Modules
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Utilities
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Terminals
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS X/Open Networking Services
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS X/Open Networking XTI/TLI Library
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Sockets
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Internet Protocol Drivers
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS SCTP
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Channels and Multiplexing
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS X.25 and Frame Relay Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS ISDN Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS ATM Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS SS7 Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS SIGTRAN Stack
@item @tab @bullet{} STREAMS VoiP Stack
@end multitable

Fully deprecated by this release and no longer released by the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project} are the following former
subpackages of the OpenSS7 Master Package:@footnote{With the exception of Linux
Native Sockets SCTP, these packages can be obtained from the projects or
companites that originated them.}

@multitable @columnfractions 0.05 0.95
@item @tab @bullet{} Linux Native Sockets SCTP
@item @tab @bullet{} Internet Performance (the OpenSS7 iperf fork)
@item @tab @bullet{} Network Performance (the OpenSS7 netperf fork)
@item @tab @bullet{} Dialogic Open System Release 6.1
@end multitable

This distribution is applicable to both @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels as was
targeted at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64}
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.

@ignore
This is the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  It consists of a master
package that contains all other
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project} package releases.  Use this
package if you are interested in ease of installation of a wide range of
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project} packages.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains:

@command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} (@cite{Linux Native Sockets SCTP}), @*
@command{iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}} (@cite{Internet Performance}), @*
@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} (@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}), @*
@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}} (@cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules}), @*
@command{strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}} (@cite{STREAMS Utilities}), @*
@command{strbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}} (@cite{STREAMS Binary Compatibility Module}), @*
@command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}} (@cite{STREAMS Terminals}), @*
@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} (@cite{STREAMS X/Open Networking Services}), @*
@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} (@cite{STREAMS X/Open Networking}), @*
@command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} (@cite{STREAMS Sockets}), @*
@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} (@cite{STREAMS Internet}), @*
@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} (@cite{STREAMS SCTP}), @*
@command{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}} (@cite{STREAMS Channels}), @*
@command{strx25-@value{VERSION_STRX25}} (@cite{STREAMS X.25}), @*
@command{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} (@cite{STREAMS Open Systems Interconnect}), @*
@command{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}} (@cite{Network Performance}), @*
@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}} (@cite{STREAMS ISDN Stack}), @*
@command{stratm-@value{VERSION_STRATM}} (@cite{STREAMS ATM Stack}), @*
@command{strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}} (@cite{STREAMS SS7 Stacks}), @*
@command{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}} (@cite{STREAMS SIGTRAN Stack}), @*
@command{strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}} (@cite{STREAMS VoIP Stacks}), @*
@command{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}} (@cite{Dialogic Open System Release 6.1}) and @*
@command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}} (@cite{Linux STREAMS}).

If you need to build an install a significant number of these packages, the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is the easiest way to do so.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6
kernels and was targeted at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and
@code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and install for other
architectures as well.
@end ignore
