\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) doc/manual/libxnet.texi
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c

@setfilename libxnet.info
@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS/XTI Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory GNU libraries
@direntry
* Libxnet: (libxnet).			An Open XTI/TLI library for STREAMS.
@end direntry

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS/XTI Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS/XTI Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 1
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@ignore
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
@value{LONG} (@value{SHORT}) interface to these components as well as providing a basis for
@value{LONG} control for other @value{LONG} protocols.
@end quotation
@end ignore
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@c @syncodeindex tp cp
@c @syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Reference::
* Conformance::
* Multi-Threading::
* Error Handling::
* Installation::
* Bugs::
* Licenses::
* Indices::
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Acknowledgements::
@end menu

@node Acknowledgements
@section Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction to the XTI Library
@cindex introduction

This manual documents how to run, install and port the OpenSS7 XTI Library,
and how to report bugs.


@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cpindex reference

@menu
* Overview::                    An overview of XTI Functions and Header Files
* XTI Function Reference::      Reference manual of XTI Functions
* XTI Header File Reference::   Reference manual of XTI Header Files
@end menu

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cpindex overview

@node XTI Function Reference
@section XTI Function Reference
@cpindex functions

@menu
* t_accept::                    Accept a connection request.
* t_addleaf::                   Add a leaf to a point-multi-point connection.
* t_alloc::                     Allocate an XTI library structure.
* t_bind::                      Bind a transport endpoint to a transport address.
* t_close::                     Close a transport endpoint.
* t_connect::                   Connect a transport endpoint to a transport address.
* t_errno::                     Report XTI library errors.
* t_error::                     Generate an XTI error message.
* t_free::                      Free an XTI library structure.
* t_getinfo::                   Get protocol-specific transport endpoint information.
* t_getprotaddr::               Get local and remote transport addresses.
* t_getstate::                  Get the state of the transport endpoint.
* t_listen::                    Listen for connection requests.
* t_look::                      Retrieve an asynchronous event.
* t_open::                      Open a transport endpoint.
* t_optmgmt::                   Perform options management for a transport endpoint.
* t_rcv::                       Receive data on a connection-oriented transport endpoint.
* t_rcvconnect::                Receive connection confirmation.
* t_rcvdis::                    Receive disconnect indication.
* t_rcvleafchange::             Receive a leaf change on a point-multi-point connection.
* t_rcvrel::                    Receive an orderly release indication.
* t_rcvreldata::                Receive an orderly release indication with user data.
* t_rcvudata::                  Receive a unit data indication.
* t_rcvuderr::                  Receive a unit data error indication.
* t_rcvv::                      Receive data a place in gather buffers.
* t_rcvvudata::                 Receive a unit data indication an place in gather buffers.
* t_removeleaf::                Remove a leaf from a point-to-multi-point connection.
* t_snd::                       Send data.
* t_snddis::                    Send disconnect request.
* t_sndrel::                    Send an orderly release request.
* t_sndreldata::                Send an orderly release request with data.
* t_sndudata::                  Send a unit data.
* t_sndv::                      Send data from non-contiguous buffers.
* t_sndvudata::                 Send a unit data from non-contiguous buffers.
* t_strerror::                  Provide a descriptive string for an XTI error.
* t_sync::                      Synchronize the XTI library to a new file descriptor.
* t_sysconf::                   Examine XTI library system configuration parameters.
* t_unbind::                    Unbind a transport endpoint from a transport adddress.
@end menu

@page
@node t_accept
@unnumberedsubsec t_accept
@fnindex t_accept

@subsubheading NAME

@strong{t_accept} - accept a connection request

@subsubheading SYNOPSIS
@example
#include <xti.h>

int t_accept(int @var{fd}, int @var{resfd}, struct t_call *@var{call});
@end example

@subsubheading ARGUMENTS
@table @var
@item fd
the transport endpoint upon which a connection indication was received.

@item resfd
the transport endpoint upon which to accept the connection.

@item call
a pointer to a t_call structure containing information about the responding
endpoint and any data to be transferred in response.
@end table

@subsubheading DESCRIPTION
The @var{fd} argument is an integer file descriptor specifying the stream upon
which a previous connection indication was received with t_listen(3), and for
which the connection indication is to now be accepted.

The @var{resfd} argument is an integer file descriptor specifying the stream
upon which to accept the transport connection. @var{resfd} can be the same as
@var{fd} or different. When @var{resfd} is different from @var{fd}, the caller
specifies that the connection is to be accepted on the stream associated with
@var{resfd}. When @var{resfd} is different from @var{fd}, the stream
associated with @var{resfd} must be an XTI/TLI[1..3] stream on the same
transport provider that is either in the @code{T_UNBND} state, or is in the
@code{T_IDLE} state and bound to the same address as the responding address.

@vindex T_IDLE
@vindex T_UNBND

The @var{call} argument is a pointer to a t_call structure, specifying the
responding address, @var{addr}, the response options, @var{opt}, and any response user
data, @var{udata}. format­ ted as follows:

@example
struct t_call @{
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        struct netbuf udata;            /* data */
        int sequence;                   /* identification */
@};
@end example

The @var{addr}, @var{opt} and @var{udata} members of the t_call structure are netbuf(3)
structures, each formatted as follows:

@example
struct netbuf @{
        unsigned int maxlen;            /* max length */
        unsigned int len;               /* current length */
        char *buf;                      /* data */
@};
@end example

@table @var
@item addr
A netbuf(3) structure that specifies the responding address. The responding
address is the address accepting the connection.
@code{@var{call}->addr.maxlen} is set to zero (0) by the caller and ignored by
the provider.  @code{@var{call}->addr.len} is set to the length of the
responding address.  If the length of the responding address is zero (0) then
the destination address of the connection indication is used as the responding
address.  @code{@var{call}->addr}.  @var{buf} points to the responding
address.

@item opt
A netbuf(3) structure that specifies the responding options. The responding
options can be both end-to-end and local transport options.
@code{@var{call}->opt.maxlen} is set to zero (0) by the caller and is ignored
by the provider.  @code{@var{call}->opt.len} is set to the length of the
options. If the length of the responding options is zero (0) no options are
specified.  @code{@var{call}->opt.buf} points to the options.

@item udata
A netbuf(3) structure that specifies the data to send with the connection
response. @code{@var{call}->udata.maxlen} is set to zero (0) by the caller and
is ignored by the provider. @code{@var{call}->udata.len} is set to the length
of the data. If the length of the data is zero (0) no data is included in the
response message.  @code{@var{call}->udata.buf} points to the data.

@item sequence
specifies a sequence number of the connection indication that is to be
accepted. This value was returned by a previous @var{call} to t_lis­ ten(3).
@end table

@subsubheading CAVEATS
t_accept() is only valid in state @code{T_INCON} with an out­ standing number
of connection indications greater than zero (0).

@vindex T_INCON

t_accept() is only valid for transport service providers of service type
@code{T_COTS} or @code{T_COTS_ORD}.

@vindex T_COTS
@vindex T_COTS_ORD

@subsubheading RETURN VALUE
Upon success, t_accept() returns zero (0). Upon failure, t_accept() returns -1
and sets t_errno(3) to an appropriate error number.

@subsubheading ERRORS
When t_accept() fails, it returns -1 and sets t_errno(3) to an appropriate
error number as follows:

@table @asis

@item @errno{TACCES}
The caller did not have sufficient permissions to accept a connection on the
@var{resfd} file descriptor, or did not have sufficient permissions to use the
responding address specified in @code{@var{call}->addr}.  

@item @errno{TBADADDR}
The address specified was of an invalid format or contained invalid
information. This error is returned from the transport service provider.

@item @errno{TBADDATA}
The amount of data specified for the @var{call} and underlying transport
service provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits). See
t_getinfo(3) and t_open(3) for more information.

@item @errno{TBADF}
The @var{fd} or @var{resfd} file descriptor was invalid.

@item @errno{TBADOPT}
The options specified were of an invalid for­ mat or contained invalid
information. This error is returned from the transport service provider.  See
t_optmgmt(3) for more information on option formats.

@item @errno{TBADSEQ}
The sequence number provided was invalid, or is not associated with an
outstanding connection indication.

@item @errno{TINDOUT}
The file descriptor @var{resfd} has outstanding connection indications.

@item @errno{TLOOK}
An asynchronous event occurred before the @var{call} could complete. See
t_look(3) for more information.

@item @errno{TNOTSUPPORT}
The @var{call} requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the
underlying transport provider.

@item @errno{TOUTSTATE}
The @var{call} was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.

@item @errno{TPROTO}
A protocol error occurred between the XTI library and the underlying transport
provider.

@item @errno{TPROVMISMATCH}
The transport provider associated with @var{resfd} is not the same as the
transport provider associated with @var{fd}.

@item @errno{TRESADDR}
The file descriptor @var{resfd} was bound to a different address than the
responding address.

@item @errno{TRESQLEN}
The file descriptor @var{resfd} is listening (i.e. it was bound with a
@var{qlen} > 0).

@vindex qlen

@item @errno{TSYSERR}
A Linux system error occurred and the Linux error number is set in errno(3).

@end table

@subsubheading SEE ALSO
netbuf(3), t_listen(3).

@subsubheading CONFORMING TO
XTI/TLI[4], TPI[5], XPG5, XNS 5.2[6], SUSv2[7].

@subsubheading REFERENCES

Trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners.

@subsubheading VERSIONS
OpenSS7 XTI Library: $Name:  $($Revision: 1.1.2.2 $); $Date: 2011-02-07 02:21:33 $.

@subsubheading AUTHOR
@format
@flushleft
Brian F. G. Bidulock @email{bidulock@@openss7.org}
The OpenSS7 Project @uref{http://www.openss7.org/}
@end flushleft
@end format

@subsubheading COPYRIGHT
@format
@flushleft
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2008 @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.
All Rights Reserved.
(See roff source for permission notice.)
@end flushleft
@end format

@subsubheading TRADEMARKS
@format
@flushleft
Linux® is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds
UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.
OpenSS7tm is a trademark of OpenSS7 Corporation.
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
@end flushleft
@end format


@page
@node t_addleaf
@subsection t_addleaf
@fnindex t_addleaf

@subsubheading NAME
@emph{t_addleaf} - add a point to a point to multi-point connection

@subsubheading SYNOPSIS
@example
#include <@file{xti.h}>

int t_addleaf(int @var{fd}, int @var{leafid}, struct netbuf *@var{addr});
@end example

@subsubheading ARGUMENTS
@table @var
@item fd
the transport endpoint to which to add a leaf.

@item leafid
the identifier for the leaf.

@item addr
a pointer to a netbuf(3) structure containing the address of the leaf.
@end table

@subsubheading DESCRIPTION
Requests that an endpoint be added to a point to multi-point connection.

@var{fd} is the file descriptor of the local transport endpoint.

@var{leafid}  is  a transport user assigned integer value which will be used
to identify the point added to the point to multi-point connection in
subsequent interactions with the transport user.

@var{addr} is a netbuf(3) structure specifying on call the address of the
local point being  added  to  the point  to multi-point connection.  No
information is returned in @var{addr}.  @samp{@var{addr}->maxlen} is ignored
by the call.  @samp{@var{addr}->len} is the length of the address.  If
@samp{@var{addr}->len} is zero, it indicates that no  address  is provided.
@samp{@var{addr}->buf} is a pointer to the user buffer containing the address.

@subsubheading CAVEATS
@emph{t_addleaf()} is only valid in the @dfn{T_DATAXFER} state.

@emph{t_addleaf()}  is  only valid for transport service providers of service
type @dfn{T_COTS} or @dfn{T_COTS_ORD} that support point to multi-point
connection management.

In synchronous mode, @emph{t_addleaf()} blocks until a leaf  change
confirmation  is  received.   In  asynchronous  mode where no leaf change
confirmation is immediately available, @emph{t_addleaf()} fails, returns -1
and sets t_errno(3) to @errno{TNODATA}.

@subsubheading RETURN VALUE
Upon success, @emph{t_addleaf()} returns zero (0) and confirms the addition of
the requested  leaf.   Upon failure, @emph{t_addleaf()} returns -1 and sets
t_errno(3) to an appropriate error number.

@subsubheading ERRORS
When @emph{t_addleaf()} fails, it returns -1 and sets t_errno(3) to an
appropriate error number as follows:

@table @asis

@item @errno{TBADF}
@var{fd} is invalid.

@item @errno{TADDRBUSY}
address specificed was already in use by another transport endpoint.

@item @errno{TBADADDR}
address specified was of an invalid format or contained invalid information.

@item @errno{TLOOK}
asynchronous  event  occurred  before the call could complete.  See
@ref{t_look}, for more information.

@item @errno{TNOADDR}
address was not specified and the transport provider could not assign one.

@item @errno{TNODATA}
attempt was made to read the add leaf confirmation but no add  leaf
confirmation  was available.

@item @errno{TNOTSUPPORT}
call  requires  the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying
transport provider.

@item @errno{TOUTSTATE}
call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.

@item @errno{TPROTO}
protocol error occurred between the XTI library and the underlying transport
provider.

@item @errno{TSYSERR}
Linux system error occurred and the Linux error number is set in errno(3).

@end table

@subsubheading SEE ALSO
netbuf(3), t_rcvleafchange(3), t_removeleaf(3).

@subsubheading CONFORMING TO
XTI/TLI[1], TPI[2], XPG5, XNS 5.2[3], SUSv2[4].

@subsubheading REFERENCES

@enumerate
@item
XOpen Transport Interface, n.d., XPG, X Programmer's Group.  <http://www.open-
group.org/onlinepubs/>

@item
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Specification, Draft 2, 1999, (Parsippany,
New Jersey), Open Group, Open Group Publication.
<http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/>

@item
Technical Standard: Network Services (XNS), 1999, Open Group, Open Group
Publication. [ISBN 1-85912-241-8] <http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/>

@item
Single UNIX Specification, Open Group, Open Group Publication.
<http://www.open- group.org/onlinepubs/>

@end enumerate

Trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners.

@subsubheading VERSIONS
@format
@flushleft
Linux Fast-STREAMS: $Name:  $($Revision: 1.1.2.2 $); $Date: 2011-02-07 02:21:33 $.
@end flushleft
@end format

@subsubheading AUTHOR
@format
@flushleft
Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@@openss7.org>
The OpenSS7 Project http://www.openss7.org/
@end flushleft
@end format

@subsubheading COPYRIGHT
@format
@flushleft
Copyright (C) 1997-2008 OpenSS7 Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
(See roff source for permission notice.)
@end flushleft
@end format

@subsubheading TRADEMARKS
@format
@flushleft
OpenSS7tm  is a trademark of OpenSS7 Corporation.
Linux@registeredsymbol{}  is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.
UNIX@registeredsymbol{}  is a registered trademark of The Open Group.
Solaris@registeredsymbol{}  is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems.
Other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
@end flushleft
@end format

@page
@node t_alloc
@subsection t_alloc
@fnindex t_alloc

@page
@node t_bind
@subsection t_bind
@fnindex t_bind

@page
@node t_close
@subsection t_close
@fnindex t_close

@page
@node t_connect
@subsection t_connect
@fnindex t_connect

@page
@node t_errno
@subsection t_errno
@fnindex t_errno

@page
@node t_error
@subsection t_error
@fnindex t_error

@page
@node t_free
@subsection t_free
@fnindex t_free

@page
@node t_getinfo
@subsection t_getinfo
@fnindex t_getinfo

@page
@node t_getprotaddr
@subsection t_geprotaddr
@fnindex t_geprotaddr

@page
@node t_getstate
@subsection t_getstate
@fnindex t_getstate

@page
@node t_listen
@subsection t_listen
@fnindex t_listen

@page
@node t_look
@subsection t_look
@fnindex t_look

@page
@node t_open
@subsection t_open
@fnindex t_open

@page
@node t_optmgmt
@subsection t_optmgmt
@fnindex t_optmgmt

@page
@node t_rcv
@subsection t_rcv
@fnindex t_rcv

@page
@node t_rcvconnect
@subsection t_rcvconnect
@fnindex t_rcvconnect

@page
@node t_rcvdis
@subsection t_rcvdis
@fnindex t_rcvdis

@page
@node t_rcvleafchange
@subsection t_rcvleafchange
@fnindex t_rcvleafchange

@page
@node t_rcvrel
@subsection t_rcvrel
@fnindex t_rcvrel

@page
@node t_rcvreldata
@subsection t_rcvreldata
@fnindex t_rcvreldata

@page
@node t_rcvudata
@subsection t_rcvudata
@fnindex t_rcvudata

@page
@node t_rcvuderr
@subsection t_rcvuderr
@fnindex t_rcvuderr

@page
@node t_rcvv
@subsection t_rcvv
@fnindex t_rcvv

@page
@node t_rcvvudata
@subsection t_rcvvudata
@fnindex t_rcvvudata

@page
@node t_removeleaf
@subsection t_removeleaf
@fnindex t_removeleaf

@page
@node t_snd
@subsection t_snd
@fnindex t_snd

@page
@node t_snddis
@subsection t_snddis
@fnindex t_snddis

@page
@node t_sndrel
@subsection t_sndrel
@fnindex t_sndrel

@page
@node t_sndreldata
@subsection t_sndreldata
@fnindex t_sndreldata

@page
@node t_sndudata
@subsection t_sndudata
@fnindex t_sndudata

@page
@node t_sndv
@subsection t_sndv
@fnindex t_sndv

@page
@node t_sndvudata
@subsection t_sndvudata
@fnindex t_sndvudata

@page
@node t_strerror
@subsection t_strerror
@fnindex t_strerror

@page
@node t_sync
@subsection t_sync
@fnindex t_sync

@page
@node t_sysconf
@subsection t_sysconf
@fnindex t_sysconf

@page
@node t_unbind
@subsection t_unbind
@fnindex t_unbind


@page
@node XTI Header File Reference
@section XTI Header File Reference

@cpindex header files

@menu
* xti::                         XTI Library header file.
* xti_ip::                      Internet Protocol header file.
* xti_mtp::                     SS7 Message Transfer Part header file.
* xti_sccp::                    SS7 Signalling Connection Control Part header file.
* xti_sctp::                    Stream Control Transmission Protocol header file.
* xti_ss7::                     SS7 header file.
* xti_sscop::                   Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol header file.
* xti_tcap::                    SS7 Transaction Capabilities Application Part header file.
* xti_tcp::                     Transmission Control Protocol header file.
* xti_udp::                     User Datagram Protocol header file.
@end menu

@page
@node xti
@subsection xti
@pgindex xti

@cpindex header files, xti
@cpindex xti header file

@page
@node xti_ip
@subsection xti_ip
@pgindex xti_ip

@cpindex header files, xti ip
@cpindex xti ip header file
@cpindex ip, xti header file

@page
@node xti_mtp
@subsection xti_mtp
@pgindex xti_mtp

@page
@node xti_sccp
@subsection xti_sccp
@pgindex xti_sccp

@page
@node xti_sctp
@subsection xti_sctp
@pgindex xti_sctp

@page
@node xti_ss7
@subsection xti_ss7
@pgindex xti_ss7

@page
@node xti_sscop
@subsection xti_sccop
@pgindex xti_sccop

@page
@node xti_tcap
@subsection xti_tcap
@pgindex xti_tcap

@page
@node xti_tcp
@subsection xti_tcp
@pgindex xti_tcp

@page
@node xti_udp
@subsection xti_udp
@pgindex xti_udp




@page
@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

This section lists the standards conformance of the OpenSS7 XTI Library.




@node Multi-Threading
@chapter Multi-Threading
@cindex thread safety


@node Error Handling
@chapter Error Handling
@cindex error handling

This chapter describes error handling in the XTI Library.



@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

This chapter describes configuration, compilation and installation of the XTI
library.



@node Bugs
@chapter Bugs
@cindex bugs

This is a description of the known bugs, installation troubles, known causes of
trouble, troubleshooting.

@node Licenses
@appendix Licenses
@cindex Licenses

@menu
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@node Indices
@appendix Indices
@cindex Indices

@menu
* Concept Index::
* Type Index::
* Function Index::
* Variable Index::
* File Index::
@end menu

@page
@node Concept Index
@appendixsec Concept Index

@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@appendixsec Type Index

@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@appendixsec Function and Macro Index

@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@appendixsec Variable and Constant Macro Index

@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@appendixsec Program and File Index

@printindex pg

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

