@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:40:08 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:40:08 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.G::		Release G
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.F::		Release F
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.E::		Release E
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D::		Release D
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc3::		Release D Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc2::		Release D Candidate 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.Drc1::		Release D Candidate 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.C::		Release C
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.B::		Release B
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.A::		Release A
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This the third @cite{OpenSS7 Project} respin of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This is a
production grade release.  All existing validation test suites run clean on supported distributions,
production kernels and architectures.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package has undergone significant changes, so follow closely.  In
it first incarnation, epoch zero (0), the @file{openss7} package was an add-on package to a now
deprecated version of STREAMS.  This changed due to the deprecation of the old versions of STREAMS.
In its second incarnation, epoch one (1), the @file{openss7} package contained Linux Fast-STREAMS
and a number of other sub-packages, each capable of building and installing separately.  This
changed due to the increasing maintenance overhead as additional sub-packages were added.  In its
latest incarnation, epoch two (2), the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is a monolithic package
containing Linux Fast-STREAMS and most of the other subpackages in a single build package.

Major feature additions since the last public release are:

@itemize @minus
@item
SNMP agents are more thorough and complete.

@item
Java JAIN SS7 OAM, MTP, SCCP, TCAP, INAP, MAP, ISUP, ISDN, H.323, IUA, M3UA, SUA, TUA, SPIRITS
components, with JAIN JCC 1.2 and MSCONTROL.

@item
Interfaces provided for major scripting languages including Java, Tcl, Perl and Ruby using Swig.
@end itemize

Major packaging changes since the last public release, epoch one (1), are:

@itemize @minus
@item
The package only compiles with Linux Fast-STREAMS, which is included.

@item
Only OpenSS7 Project developed modules, drivers, libraries and utilities have been included.

@item
Forks of other test utilities such as Iperf and Netperf have been removed.

@item
Sub-package source and installation sub-directories have all been collapsed into the one
@file{openss7} sub-directory.

@item
A single tarball, SRPM and DSC generates a simple set of 3 binary RPMs or DEBs.

@item
The entire package is now released under the Affero GNU Public License Version 3; however,
commercial licensing is also available for the entire package.
@end itemize

Major upgrades from the last public release are:

@itemize @minus
@item
Updated build system to @file{swig-1.3.39}.

@item
Updated build system to @file{automake-1.11} with full silent build.

@item
Excluded deprecated sub-packages as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}
@item @tab -- @file{iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}}
@item @tab -- @file{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}}
@item @tab -- @file{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}}
@end multitable

@item
Documentation license for all documentation upgraded to GFDL 1.3 with no Invariant Sections, no
Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts, for full Debian policy compatibility.

@item
Updated build system tool chain to @file{m4-1.4.13}, @file{automake-1.10.2}, @file{bison-2.4.1},
@file{libtool-2.2.6a}, @file{texinfo-4.13a}.

@item
Addition of the following sub-packages:
@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{stratm-@value{VERSION_STRATM}}
@end multitable
This subpackage was then instantly absorbed into the new @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@item
Significant feature updates were made to:
@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}}
@item @tab -- @file{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}}
@item @tab -- @file{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}}
@item @tab -- @file{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}}
@end multitable

@item
Significant rework of the @file{strchan} sub-package into the @file{strss7}, @file{strisdn},
@file{strx25} and @file{striso} packages.  One single driver now meets the needs of all sub-packages.

@item
Completion of the @file{strsock} package, moves from pre-alpha to beta.

@item
The @file{strnsl} subpackage moves from alpha to production.

@item
Significant completion of the @file{sigtran} package: all components moved back to production.

@end itemize

Major maintenance items since the last public release are:

@itemize @minus
@item
Fixed timer reporting in the pstrlog() call resulting in near-epoch invalid timestamps.  This was an
annoyance.  (Bug# strutil 001.)

@item 
Fixed assurances in untimeout and unbufcall utilities.  This could be service affecting on many-way
machines.  (Bug# streams 027.)

@item
Timer cancellation directly from ICS races removed.  This could be service affecting on many-way
machines.  (Bug# streams 027.)

@item
Corrected removal of SLAP_NO_REAP flag from recent kernels causing timeout problems on many-way
machines under memory pressure.  (Bug# streams 026.)
@end itemize

For complete detail on maintenance items, see
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}/BUGS,@file{BUGS}} in the release.

@emph{This is a public, stable, production grade release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 @manref{rpm(8)} and @manref{dpkg(1)} based distributions, and
can be used on production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released strictly under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version
3}; however, commercial licensing is available.  The release is available as an @manref{autoconf(1)}
tarball, SRPM, DSC, and a set of binary RPMs and DEBs for popular distributions.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,package page} for the @mantype{autoconf(1)}
tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/repos.html,repository page} for information concerning network
installation and update sources.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html,html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel2009XXXX_L.html}.
@ignore
This is the seventh @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  For
a sub-package listing, see
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}/README,@file{README}} in the release.  Most
of the sub-packages in the release are production grade for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  All existing validation test suites run clean on supported distributions, production
kernels and architectures.

The original intention was that the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package not be released as often as
subpackages and, indeed, newer subpackages can be strapped into the master package and built
automatically.  However, in reality, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package has been released as
often as the subpackages.  To rebuild the master package with a new sub-package release, simply
replace the directory to which the sub-package belongs with the unpackged sub-package reelase and
then rebuild the master package.  This release provides support for recent distributions, production
kernels and tool chains.  The release also provides support for significiant new features in the
sub-packages.

Major features since the last public release are:

@itemize -
@item
Updated to @file{automake-1.11}.

@item
Deprecated sub-packages have been excluded from the master package release.  The excluded
sub-packages are:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}
@item @tab -- @file{iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}}
@item @tab -- @file{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}}
@item @tab -- @file{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}}
@end multitable

@item
Documentation license upgraded to GFDL 1.3.

@item
Updated tool chain to @file{m4-1.4.13}, @file{automake-1.10.2}, @file{bison-2.4.1},
@file{libtool-2.2.6a}, @file{texinfo-4.13a}.

@item
Addition of the following sub-packages:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{stratm-@value{VERSION_STRATM}}
@end multitable

@item
Addition of the @file{stratm} sub-package to the master build and release that now includes all of
the ATM components that were previously part of the @file{strss7} sub-package.

@item
Significant feature updates were made to:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}}
@item @tab -- @file{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}}
@item @tab -- @file{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}}
@item @tab -- @file{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}}
@end multitable

@item
Significant rework of the @file{strchan} sub-package into the @file{strss7}, @file{strisdn},
@file{strx25} and @file{striso} packages.  One single driver now meets the needs of all sub-packages.

@item
Completion of the @file{strsock} package, moves from pre-alpha to beta.

@item
The @file{strnsl} subpackage moves from alpha to production.

@item
Significant completion of the @file{sigtran} package: all components moved back to production.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public, stable, production grade release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 @manref{rpm(8)} and @manref{dpkg(1)} based distributions, and
can be used on production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released strictly under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version
3}; however, commercial licensing is available.  The release is available as an @manref{autoconf(1)}
tarball, SRPM, DSC, and a set of binary RPMs and DEBs for popular distributions.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,package page} for the @mantype{autoconf(1)}
tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/repos.html,repository page} for information concerning network
installation and update sources.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html,html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel2009XXXX_L.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.G
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.G
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.G

This is the sixth public release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  See @file{README} in the release for
a sub-package listing.  Most of the sub-packages in the release are production grade for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  All existing validation test suites run clean on supported distributions and
architectures.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is not released as often as the sub-packages.  As sub-packages are
released more often, to rebuild the master package with a new sub-package release, simply replace
the directory to which the sub-package belongs with the unpacked sub-package release and then
rebuild the master package.  This release provides support for recent distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
License upgrade to @cite{AGPL Version 3}.

@item
Modifications to build under @cite{Fedora} @samp{2.6.22.5-49} kernel.  These changes also support
@samp{2.6.22.9-91.fc7} kernel.  Modifications to build under @cite{Fedora} @samp{2.6.25-45.fc9} and
@samp{2.6.26.5-45.fc9} kernels.
Documented @file{lib32gcc1} problem on Ubuntu.
Noted problem running under XEN kernels.  XEN kernels are not yet supported.
Added @constant{MODULE_VERSION} to all modules and drivers.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for embedded targets.
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.
Cross-compile fixes (strap out @constant{AC_FUNC_REALLOC} macro when cross-compiling).
Conversion of RPM spec files to common approach for major subpackages.

Build system now builds @mantype{yum(8)} repositories for RPMs and @mantype{apt-get(8)} repositories
for DEBs.  Installation documentation has been updated to include details of repository install
sourcesref.

@item
Higher performance and updated performance papers.
@item
Updated tool chain to @file{m4-1.4.12}, @file{autoconf-2.63} and @file{texinfo-4.13}.
Support for @file{flex 2.5.33} in maintainer mode.

@item
Updated references database for manual pages and roff documents.

@item
Added the following major sub-packages to the master build (and release):

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strx25-0.9.2.1}
@end multitable

@item
All of the major subpackages that are at production release have maintenance upgrades for new
production kernels, distributions and tool chains.  Many of the major subpackages have greatly
expanded documentation and provide additional modules and drivers not previously available in public
releases.  Significant feature updates were made to:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strxns-0.9.2.7}
@item @tab -- @file{strinet-0.9.2.7}
@item @tab -- @file{strchan-0.9.2.4}
@item @tab -- @file{strx25-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{striso-0.9.2.4}
@item @tab -- @file{strss7-0.9a.8}
@item @tab -- @file{sigtran-0.9.2.4}
@end multitable

Please see the individual @file{NEWS} files in each of the subpackages for more information.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on
production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version 3}.  The
release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM, DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.
See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the @command{autoconf}
tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package page}.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20081029_L.html}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.F
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.F
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.F

This is the fifth public release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  See
@file{README} in the release for a sub-package listing.  Most of the
sub-packages in the release are production grade for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.
All existing validation test suites run clean on supported distributions and
architectures.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is not released as often as the sub-packages.
As sub-packages are released more often, to rebuild the master package with a
new sub-package release, simply replace the directory to which the sub-package
belongs with the unpacked sub-package release and then rebuild the master
package.  This release provides support for recent distributions and tool
chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 and 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 and 2.6.20-1.2933.fc6 kernel.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.E
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.E
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.E

This is the fourth public release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  See
@file{README} in the release for a sub-package listing.  Most of the
sub-packages in the release are production grade for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.
All existing validation test suites run clean on supported distributions and
architectures.

It is unlikely that the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} will be released as
frequently as before.  Sub-packages will be released more often.  To rebuild the
master package with a new sub-package release, simply replace the directory to
which the sub-package belongs with the unpacked sub-package release and then
rebuild the master package.  This release provides support for recent
distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Addition of the @command{osr61} sub-package that contains
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL drivers.

@item
A few minor corrections to the common build process.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 1.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kernels.

@item
The package now looks for subpackages with a version number as unpacked by
separate tarball.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D

This is the fourth public release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  The
sub-packages have been reorganized for this release.  See @file{README} in the
release for a sub-package listing.  Aside from sub-package reorganization, the
major difference from previous release is that this release no longer contains
@cite{LiS}.  Too many of the sub-packages will not even build against
@cite{LiS} because of its Stream head deficiencies.

Most of the sub-packages in the release are production grade for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  All existing validation test suites run clean on supported
distributions and architectures.  The packages build better Debian/Ubuntu .deb
files.

It is unlikely that the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} will be released as
frequently as before.  Sub-packages will be released more often.  To rebuild
the master package with a new sub-package release, simply replace the
directory to which the sub-package belongs with the unpacked sub-package
release and then rebuild the master package.

The release provides the following enhancements and fixes:

@itemize -
@item
Added the following sub-packages to the master build (and release):

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strnsl-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strbcm-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{striso-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strsock-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strtty-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strutil-0.9.2.1}
@end multitable

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
This release candidate includes the changes made to the strsctp drivers at the
2006 SCTP Interop at the University of British Columbia.  This version was
interoperability tested with all implementations present.

@item
Better support for Ubuntu and recent @command{gcc} compilers, including debian
script corrections.

@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patchset).

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions to all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all OpenSS7 packages.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item 
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device
number 230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
Linux Fast-STREAMS only.  @file{streams} now supports expanded addressable
minor device numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per major
device number on 2.6 kernels:  LiS cannot support this change.

@item
Better detection of SuSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional SuSE distributions on ix86 as well as
x86_64.  Added distribution support includes SLES 9, SLES 9 SP2, SLES 9 SP3,
SLES 10, SuSE 10.1.

@item
Improvide compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic beahviour for some distributions (primarily
SuSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @samp{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @samp{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
Each package will not build @manpage{doxygen(1)} html documentation with the
@samp{make doxy} target.  See @samp{make help} or @file{README-make} in the
distribution for more information.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc3

Third release candidate.

@itemize -
@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added complete documentation and @cite{Installation and Reference Manual} for
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} (this manual).

@item
Added the following sub-packages to the master build (and release):

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab -- @file{strbcm-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{striso-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strsock-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strtty-0.9.2.1}
@item @tab -- @file{strutil-0.9.2.1}
@end multitable

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Sub-packages will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels
under @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.

@item
This release candidate provides support for additional SuSE distributions on
ix86 as well as x86_64.  Added distribution support includes SLES 9, SLES 9 SP2,
SLES 9 SP3, SLES 10, SuSE 10.1.

@item
This release candidate includes the changes made to the strsctp drivers at the
2006 SCTP Interop at the University of British Columbia.  This version was
interoperability tested with all implementations present.
@end itemize

This was an subscriber release.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.D.rc2

Second release candidate.

This release candidate also contains the results of performance testing of the
new second generation UDP driver (implemented completely in STREAMS instead of
using an internal socket).

This release candidate also contains support for SuSE 10.1.

This was an subscriber release.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.Drc1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.Drc1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.Drc1

First release candidate.

@itemize -
@item Release candidate for Mark Fugate.
@item Added --enable-devel configure option for embedded targets.
@item Added send-pr script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an subscriber release.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.C
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.C
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.C

Distribution check for entire master package.  Trying to get master package
into form where it can be released as a complete package.

This was a public release.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.B
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.B
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.B

Minor changes for wider release, better master packaging and bug fixes.

This was a public release.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.A
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.A
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.A

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All RPM release
numbers will be -1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA) and all Debian release numbers will be
@samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches and release the package, please bump up
the release number and apply a suitable release suffix for your organization.
We leave Debian release number _1 reserved for your use, so you can still bundle
the source in the .dsc file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and
popular distributions based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution
support.

This was a public release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1

Initial autoconf/RPM release of the OpenSS7 master package.

This master package contains all other OpenSS7 releases.
