% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: openss7.texi,v 0.9.2.17 2007/08/12 06:43:30 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/12 06:43:30 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename openss7.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* openss7: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).		OpenSS7 Master Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed manual carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
manual, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this manual

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Overview::			Overview of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* Licenses::			Copies of OpenSource Licenses

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Objective::			Objective
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Overview

* Background::			Background of the project
* Package Contents::		Basic contents of the master package.

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package

Conformance

* STREAMS Compatibility::	Compatibility with other STREAMS packages
* Porting::			Porting to this STREAMS package

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

Licenses

* University of Illinois License::	The UI license
* Hewlett-Packard License::		The HP license
* BSD/USL Combined License::		The BSD license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GPL} (@pxrefman{GNU General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for some of the
sub-packages included in this master package.  Consult the permission notices contained in the
documentation of each sub-package for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.  Some of the manuals and documentation contained in the sub-packages are
released under different terms.  Please consult the manual contained in each sub-package for more
information.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a guide for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} developer
when downloading, building, installing and using the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

This guide provides information to developers on the downloading, building, installation and use of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as an installation guide and reference manual to the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} developer.  It is intended to be read alone and is not intended to
replace or supplement the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing
code, the manual pages (see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.

Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, administration, kernel dumps, crashes, oops logs, package managers, the autoconf packaging
system, etc.

The guide is intended for installers and maintainers of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} software.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: openss7.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.17  2007/08/12 06:43:30  brian
- updated licenses in manuals

Revision 0.9.2.16  2007/08/03 13:33:57  brian
- manual updates, put ss7 modules in public release

Revision 0.9.2.15  2007/06/22 00:18:20  brian
- mostly documentation updates for release, some netconfig workaround

Revision 0.9.2.14  2007/03/17 08:31:22  brian
- corrected formatting problems

Revision 0.9.2.13  2007/02/28 06:30:07  brian
- updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if

Revision 0.9.2.12  2007/01/08 11:10:06  brian
- updated documentation for release

Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/12/29 12:17:54  brian
- old rpms hate nested ifs, release updates

Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/12/29 05:50:40  brian
- changes for successful master build

Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/10/21 10:30:43  brian
- updated LiS release number

Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/10/02 11:31:16  brian
- changes to get master builds working for RPM and DEB
- added outside licenses to package documentation
- added LICENSE automated release file
- copy MANUAL to source directory
- add and remove devices in -dev debian subpackages
- get debian rules working better
- release library version files
- added notes to debian changelog
- corrections for cooked manual pages in spec files
- added release documentation to spec and rules files
- copyright header updates
- moved controlling tty checks in stream head
- missing some defines for LiS build in various source files
- added OSI headers to striso package
- added includes and manual page paths to acincludes for various packages
- added sunrpc, uidlpi, uinpi and uitpi licenses to documentation and release
  files
- moved pragma weak statements ahead of declarations
- changes for master build of RPMS and DEBS with LiS

Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/09/18 01:06:16  brian
- updated manuals and release texi docs

Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/08/28 10:46:48  brian
- correction

Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/08/28 10:32:40  brian
- updated references

Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/08/27 12:26:28  brian
- finalizing auto release files

Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/08/26 09:15:47  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 1.1.2.2  2006/08/23 11:00:17  brian
- added preface, corrections and updates for release

Revision 1.1.2.1  2006/08/22 12:40:13  brian
- added doc tree for master package


@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this manual or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

The @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} project was funded in part by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end multitable

Thanks to the subscribers to and sponsors of @url{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project}.
Without their support, open software like this would not be possible.

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@unnumberedsec Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @refman{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this manual.

@node Maintainer
@unnumberedsec Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xrefman{Problem
Reports}.

@node Web Resources
@unnumberedsec Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Objective::			Objective
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GPL} (@pxrefman{GNU General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for some of the
sub-packages included in this master package.  Consult the permission notices contained in the
documentation of each sub-package for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.  Some of the manuals and documentation contained in the sub-packages are
released under different terms.  Please consult the manual contained in each sub-package for more
information.
@end ignore

@node Objective
@section Objective
@cindex objective

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Overview::			Overview of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Overview}.
@tab Overview of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @cite{Overview}.
@tab Overview of the package
@item @cite{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @cite{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @cite{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @cite{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @cite{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@cindex overview

@menu
* Background::			Background of the project
* Package Contents::		Basic contents of the master package.
@end menu

@node Background
@section Background
@cindex background

@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project} was started in 1996 an made it Web debut in
2000.  The initial objectives of the OpenSS7 Project were to provide an SS7 stack implementation for
Linux.  Initial work on development of the SS7 stack attempted to integrate the SS7 protocol
elements into Linux's BSD-like Sockets based networking system.  Early on this approach became
problematic.  Although the true BSD sockets networking system is somewhat ameniable to a wider range
of protocols that just the TCP/IP protocol suite, as evidenced by the early adoption of OSI
protocols into BSD 4.3 , the incarnation of the system present in Linux deviates largely from the
BSD module in that there is no clean separation between the socket layer and the protocol layer, and
that the protocol layer cannot actually be stacked in the same fashion as is possible in BSD.  Thes
and other difficulties led the project, in 2001, to persue the STREAMS approach to networking.

At the time (in 2000), there was an implemetnation for STREAMS for Linux, called Linux STREAMS, or
@cite{LiS} for short.  The OpenSS7 Project worked extensively with enhancing the @cite{LiS} package
for use with SS7 and SIGTRAN protocols.  The versions of @cite{LiS} that were available for the
Linux 2.2 series kernels available at the time were quite stable.@footnote{Linux 2.2 series kernels
did @emph{not} support symmetrical multi-processing (SMP) making it similar to SVR 4.0.}  The
versions of @cite{LiS} that were available for the Linux 2.4 series kernels attempted to support SMP
using the same SVR 4.0-like STREAMS model.  These versions of @cite{LiS} were incredibly difficult
to stabilize on Linux 2.4 series kernels.  Much of the problems with @cite{LiS} appeared to be
related to a poor coding style, and the attempt to maintain portablity to systems other than Linux,
(even though it appears that ports were not even popular).

Therefore, in 2003, the OpenSS7 Project decided to replace @cite{LiS} with a completely new
implementation of STREAMS for Linux based, on SVR 4.2 documentation, called @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}, or @cite{LfS}.  The OpenSS7 Project also decided to support a fork of @cite{LiS} in
the meantime to developing @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} to production grade.  The project maintained a
fork of @cite{LiS-2.16} for the Linux 2.4 kernel series, and later a fork of @cite{LiS-2.18} for the
Linux 2.6 kernel series.  The development of @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} culminated with the first
production grade release for Linux 2.4 and 2.6 kernel services at the beginning of 2006, after which
the OpenSS7 forks of @cite{LiS} were completely deprecated.

Beginning in 2001, the OpenSS7 Project has developed STREAMS components over a wide range of
applications, not just SS7.  These components are divided into groups of components that are
released within separate sub-packages of the OpenSS7 Master Package.

@node Package Contents
@section Package Contents
@cindex package contents

@menu
* STREAMS Packages::		STREAMS packages in the master package
* Other Packages::		Other packages in the master package
@end menu

The @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is intended as a common build and installation package for
all other packages available from @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.  The master
package began as a slim framework for development of the other packages and blossomed into a
combined build and development environment for all OpenSS7 packages.  The master package is
currently very mature and provides a simple way for users of the OpenSS7 packages to download, build
and install all available OpenSS7 Project packages without concern or consideration for intricate
dependencies between packages.

@node STREAMS Packages
@subsection STREAMS Packages
@cindex STREAMS packages

Because OpenSS7 packages first built with @dfn{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} but now build with the superior
@dfn{Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)}, the master package had the objective from the onset of being able to
build all OpenSS7 packages against either @dfn{LiS} or @dfn{LfS} or both.  This was the case from
@dfn{LiS} version @emph{2.18.1} through @emph{2.18.3} and @dfn{streams} version @emph{0.7a.3}
through @emph{0.7a.5}, or master package releases @emph{0.9.2.A} through @emph{0.9.2.C}.  With the
release of master package @emph{0.9.2.D} containing @dfn{streams} @emph{0.9.2.1}, @dfn{LiS} is no
longer supported in the master package.  @dfn{LiS} @emph{2.18.3} was the final public release of
@dfn{LiS} from the OpenSS7 Project.

@node Other Packages
@subsection Other Packages
@cindex other packages

The other packages in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} normally depend upon one of the @dfn{STREAMS}
packages and zero or more of the other sub-packages in the master package.  The
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}, by default, builds @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
(@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}) and all other packages against @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  It was formerly possible; however, to direct the package to build against
@cite{Linux STREAMS} (@command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}}), or both @cite{LiS} and @cite{LfS} (such as
is done to release the master package).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Packages::			Packages included in the master package
* Files::			Files included in the master package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the master package
* Modules::			Modules included in the master package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the master package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the master package
* Development::			Development against the master package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Packages
@section Packages
@cindex packages

Following is a list of the sub-packages contained in the @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package:

@menu
* sctp::		Linux Native Sockets SCTP
* iperf::		Iperf
* streams::		Linux Fast-STREAMS
* strcompat::		STREAMS Compatibility Modules
* strutil::		STREAMS Utilities
* strbcm::		STREAMS Binary Compatibility Module
* strtty::		STREAMS Terminals
* strxns::		STREAMS X/Open Networking Services (XNS)
* strxnet::		STREAMS XTI/TLI Library
* strnsl::		STREAMS NSL Library
* strsock::		STREAMS Sockets Library
* strinet::		STREAMS INET
* strsctp::		STREAMS SCTP
* strchan::		STREAMS Channels
* striso::		STREAMS ISO
* netperf::		Netperf
* strisdn::		STREAMS ISDN Stacks
* strss7::		STREAMS SS7 Stacks
* sigtran::		STREAMS SIGTRAN Stacks
* strvoip::		STREAMS VoIP Stacks
* osr61::		Dialog Open System Release 6.1
* LiS::			Linux STREAMS
@end menu

@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .48 .52
@item Linux Native Sockets SCTP
@tab @ref{sctp}.
@item Iperf
@tab @ref{iperf}.
@item Linux Fast-STREAMS
@tab @ref{streams}.
@item STREAMS Compatibility Modules
@tab @ref{strcompat}.
@item STREAMS Utilities
@tab @ref{strutil}.
@item STREAMS Binary Compatibility Module
@tab @ref{strbcm}.
@item STREAMS Terminals
@tab @ref{strtty}.
@item STREAMS X/Open Networking Services
@tab @ref{strxns}.
@item STREAMS XTI/TLI Library
@tab @ref{strxnet}.
@item STREAMS NSL Library
@tab @ref{strnsl}.
@item STREAMS Sockets Library
@tab @ref{strsock}.
@item STREAMS INET
@tab @ref{strinet}.
@item STREAMS SCTP
@tab @ref{strsctp}.
@item STREAMS Channels
@tab @ref{strchan}.
@item STREAMS ISO
@tab @ref{striso}.
@item Netperf
@tab @ref{netperf}.
@item STREAMS ISDN Stacks
@tab @ref{strisdn}.
@item STREAMS SS7/@-ISDN/@-VoIP Stacks
@tab @ref{strss7}.
@item STREAMS SIGTRAN Stacks
@tab @ref{sigtran}.
@item STREAMS VoIP Stacks
@tab @ref{strvoip}.
@item STREAMS Dialogic Open System Release 6.1
@tab @ref{osr61}.
@item Linux STREAMS
@tab @ref{LiS}.
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .48 .52
@item Linux Native Sockets SCTP
@tab @ref{sctp}.
@item Iperf
@tab @ref{iperf}.
@item Linux Fast-STREAMS
@tab @ref{streams}.
@item STREAMS Compatibility Modules
@tab @ref{strcompat}.
@item STREAMS Utilities
@tab @ref{strutil}.
@item STREAMS Binary Compatibility Module
@tab @ref{strbcm}.
@item STREAMS Terminals
@tab @ref{strtty}.
@item STREAMS X/Open Networking Services
@tab @ref{strxns}.
@item STREAMS XTI/TLI Library
@tab @ref{strxnet}.
@item STREAMS NSL Library
@tab @ref{strnsl}.
@item STREAMS Sockets Library
@tab @ref{strsock}.
@item STREAMS INET
@tab @ref{strinet}.
@item STREAMS SCTP
@tab @ref{strsctp}.
@item STREAMS Channels
@tab @ref{strchan}.
@item STREAMS ISO
@tab @ref{striso}.
@item Netperf
@tab @ref{netperf}.
@item STREAMS ISDN Stacks
@tab @ref{strisdn}.
@item STREAMS SS7/@-ISDN/@-VoIP Stacks
@tab @ref{strss7}.
@item STREAMS SIGTRAN Stacks
@tab @ref{sigtran}.
@item STREAMS VoIP Stacks
@tab @ref{strvoip}.
@item STREAMS Dialogic Open System Release 6.1
@tab @ref{osr61}.
@item Linux STREAMS
@tab @ref{LiS}.
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

These sub-packages are described in sections following.

@node sctp
@subsection sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}

@dfn{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} is the @cite{Linux} native (Sockets) version of OpenSS7 Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).  This is an implementation of SCTP built on the same protocol
engine core as the @dfn{STREAMS} implementation: @command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}.  This
sub-package currently only builds for @cite{Linux} kernels in the 2.4 series; however, the
@dfn{STREAMS} implementation (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}) runs on both 2.4 and 2.6
kernel series.

This package does not rely upon any other package, but will only form part of the build for a 2.4
series @cite{Linux} kernel.

This package is contained in the @file{sctp} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{sctp/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node iperf
@subsection iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}

@dfn{iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}} is an OpenSS7 Project modified version of the University of
Illinois IPERF package.  The packages is modified to work with the OpenSS7 Linux Native Sockets
version of SCTP (@command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}) and is used for performance testing of that
package.

This package relies upon the @command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} package only.

This package is contained in the @file{iperf} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{iperf/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node streams
@subsection streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}

The @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}) package is
@cite{POSIX/SuSv3} conforming, high-performance, SVR 4.2 @dfn{STREAMS} compatible, production
replacement for the buggy, non-conforming, SVR 4 @dfn{STREAMS} @cite{LiS} package.

This package relies upon no other package and is compatible with a wide range of @cite{Linux}
kernels in both the 2.4 and 2.6 kernels.

This package is contained in the @file{streams} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{streams/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strcompat
@subsection strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}

The @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}) package is
an SVR 4.2 @dfn{STREAMS} compatibility package that provides @dfn{STREAMS} compatibility for the
following mainstream @dfn{STREAMS} implementations:

@itemize @bullet
@item UNIX System V Release 3.2
@item UNIX System V Release 4 MP
@item UNIX System V Release 4.0 MP
@item UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP
@item Mentat Portable STREAMS (MPS)
@item Linux STREAMS LiS 2.16
@item Linux STREAMS LiS 2.18
@item Linux Fast-STREAMS 0.7a
@item AIX 5L Version 5.2 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE)
@item HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX
@item OSF/1.2 - Digital UNIX STREAMS
@item UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8) STREAMS
@item Solaris 8/SunOS 5.9 (OpenSolaris) STREAMS
@item Mac OS 9 OpenTransport 1.5r2
@item IRIX 6.5.17 STREAMS
@item SUPER-UX Release 9.2
@item UXP/V V10L10 STREAMS V10
@end itemize

This package was originally part of the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} release, but was split off to
temporarily provide compatibility for both @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and @cite{Linux STREAMS}, and,
thus, provide a transition path for @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules using other major @cite{UNIX}
implementations, and even @cite{LiS}, to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strcompat} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strcompat/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strutil
@subsection strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}

The @cite{STREAMS Utilities} package (@command{strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}}) provides a set of
utility programs normally only contained in the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} release, such as the
@command{scls} program.  It was the intention of this package to split of some of the more useful
utilities to allow them to work with @cite{LiS} as well as @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  Currently,
these utilities are present in the @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} package, and, as
@cite{LiS} is now completely deprecated, there is no longer a use for this package.  It is currently
not part of the build or the distribution of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.

This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux STREAMS} (@command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}})
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}})
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strutil} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strutil/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strbcm
@subsection strbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}

The @cite{STREAMS Binary Compatibility Module} (@command{strbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}}) package
was intended to provide the ability to take a pre-compiled binary object, pre-compiled either for
@cite{Linux STREAMS} or @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and install it onto a system running @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  This package would provide the ability to run older, deprecated, @cite{Lis}
pre-compiled binaries and run them under a new production @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} installation.

This package is currently incomplete and neither forms part of the build, nor part of the
distribution.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}})
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}})
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strbcm} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strbcm/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strtty
@subsection strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}

The @cite{STREAMS Terminal} (@command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}}) package

It was the intention of this package to provide Terminal interface capability for @cite{Linux
STREAMS}.  Unfortunately, @cite{Linux STREAMS} does not support the necessary capability for
supporting Terminal input/output controls directly from the @dfn{Stream head} as is necessary for
proper implementation of this package.

Currently, @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}) contains direct
support for Sockets and Terminals from the @dfn{Stream head}.  Master terminals are formed by
sending a @var{M_SETOPTS} message to the @dfn{Stream head} at open in the normal fashion  for
@dfn{STREAMS}-based terminals.  However, this capability is to some degree incomplete and only
partially tested.

Nevertheless, @cite{LiS} is now completely deprecated, and this package can contain only the
necessary modules (@file{streams-ldterm}) and drivers (@file{streams-ptem}) and depend upon
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

This package is incomplete and untested and neither forms part of the build, nor part of the
distribution.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strtty} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strtty/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strxns
@subsection strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}

The @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}) package provides Communications
Data Link Interface (CDI), Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) and Network Provider Interface (NPI)
drivers, modules, header files, documentation and specification reprints.

This package contains drivers, modules and header files that were split off from the @cite{Linux
STREAMS} release so that they could be corrected and used with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  In
particular, the standard headers files (@file{sys/cdi.h}, @file{sys/dlpi.h} and @file{sys/npi.h})
that formed part of the original @cite{LiS} releases from @uref{http://www.gcom.com/, GCOM} releases
of @cite{LiS} contained errors.

This package also provides additional DLPI and NPI drivers that were not present in any @cite{LiS}
release.

This package is complete but not completely tested.  This package relies upon the presence of the
following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strxns} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strxns/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strxnet
@subsection strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}

The @cite{STREAMS XTI/TLI Library} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}) package

This package contains drivers, modules and header files that were split off from the @cite{Linux
STREAMS} release so that they could be corrected and used with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  In
particular, the standard header files (@file{sys/tihdr.h} and @file{sys/tiuser.h}) that formed part
of the original @cite{LiS} releases from @uref{http://www.gcom.com/, GCOM} release of @cite{LiS}
contained errors.

This package provides the X/Open Transport Inteface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) library
described in the X/Open Networking Services (XNS) 5.2 specification available from the
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup}.  This library and cooperating @dfn{STREAMS} modules
(@file{streams-timod}) provide XTI/TLI library functionality to any driver providing the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0 interface.  It also provides header files conforming to the
TPI specification.

This package is complete and completely tested.  This package relies upon the presence of the
following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}).
@end enumerate


This package is contained in the @file{strxnet} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strxnet/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strnsl
@subsection strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}

The @cite{STREAMS NSL Library} (@command{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}}) package

@node strsock
@subsection strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}

The @cite{STREAMS Socket Library} (@command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}}) package provides a
library (@file{libsocket}) and cooperating @dfn{STREAMS} module (@file{streams-sockmod}) that
provides X/Open Network Services (XNS) 5.2 Sockets interface to any driver or module supporting a
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0 service interface at its upper boundary in a
similar fashion to the XTI/TLI library package above.

It was the intention of this package to provide Sockets interface capability for @cite{Linux
STREAMS}.  Unfortunately, @cite{Linux STREAMS} does not provide the necessary capabilities for
supporting Socket and Terminal input/output controls directly from the @dfn{Stream head} as is
necessary for proper implementation of this package.

Currently, @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}) contains direct
support for Sockets and Terminals in the @dfn{Stream head}.  Sockets are formed by declaring the
@dfn{Stream} to be of type @var{IFSOCK}; however, this capability is incomplete and untested.

Nevertheless, as @cite{LiS} is now completely deprecated, and there is no longer a use for this
package.  It is currently not part of the build no the distribution of @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.

This package is incomplete and untested and neither forms part of the build, nor part of the
distribution.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strsock} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strsock/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strinet
@subsection strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}

The @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}) package provides a pseudo-device
driver sporting a Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0 service interface providing to
@dfn{SCTP}, @dfn{TCP}, @dfn{UDP}, @dfn{RAWIP}, and @dfn{UNIX} sockets within the @cite{Linux}
kernel.  Also provided are second generation implementations of @dfn{UDP} and @dfn{RAWIP} that are
completely implemented using @dfn{STREAMS}.

This package is complete and tested.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages
also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}), and
@item optional @cite{Sockets SCTP} (@command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strinet} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strinet/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strsctp
@subsection strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}

The @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}) package provides a pseudo-device
driver sporting a Network Provider Interface (NPI) Revision 2.0.0 and Transport Provider Interface
(TPI) Revision 2.0.0 service interfaces to an full @dfn{STREAMS} implementation of SCTP
(@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol}).

This package is complete and tested.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages
also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strsctp} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strsctp/doc} directory for more information on
this sub-package.

@node strchan
@subsection strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}

The @cite{STREAMS Channels} (@command{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}}) package provides real device
drivers and pseudo-device drivers support a Channel Interface (CHI) or Multiplex Interface (MXI) for
data and media bearer connections.  It also provides several lower level modules for HDLC and SS7
DAED functions providing the Communications Device Interface (CDI) from the
@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} package.  The package also provides documentation for the
Channel Interface (CHI), Multiplex Interface (MXI) and Media Gateway Interface (MGI).

The HDLC component is a base component for the @command{striso} and @command{strisdn} packages,
whereas the SS7 DAEDR is a base component for the @command{strss7} package.

The device drivers provided by this package are more generic and have wider applicability than the
device drivers for the same hardware present in the @command{strss7} package.  Also included in this
package is the beginning of a @command{zaptel} integrated driver for Asterisk integration support.

This package is incomplete and untested and neither forms part of the build, nor part of the
distribution.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strchan} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.
See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strchan/doc} directory for more information
on this sub-package.

@node striso
@subsection striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}

The @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}) package provides pseudo-device
drivers providing the Communications Datalink Interface (CDI) for X.21 PAD, Data Link Provider
Interface (DLPI) for X.25 LP, Network Provider Interface (NPI) for X.25 PLP CONS and ISO CLNS, and
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) for ISO TP0, TP1, TP2, TP3, TP4.  It also supports Ethernet LAP
over LLC2.  It is intended that this package support ISOT, CMOT, CMISE/CMIP for TMN management.

This package is incomplete and untested and neither forms part of the build, nor part of the
distribution.  This package relies upon the presence of the following packages also included in the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{striso} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.

@node netperf
@subsection netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}

The @cite{Netperf} (@command{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}}) package is a OpenSS7 modified version
of the Hewlett-Packard network performance testing tool, @cite{Netperf}, modified for use with
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} XTI/TLI, INET and SCTP stack components.  It is used for performance
testing and measurement on these packages by the OpenSS7 Project.

This package is complete and tested.   This package relies upon the presence of the following
packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{netperf} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.

@node strisdn
@subsection strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}

The @cite{STREAMS ISDN} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}}) package contains a wide array of
signalling and call control packages for use in development of switching platforms and VoIP
networks.

The components in this subpackage are the
ISDN
components that were originally part of the @command{strss7} package.@footnote{The @command{strss7}
package was getting much too large and was split into @command{strchan}, @command{strsio},
@command{strisdn}, @command{strss7}, @command{sigtran} and @command{strvoip} sub-packages.}

This package is a work in progress and partially tested.  This package relies upon the presence of
the following packages also included, in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{strisdn} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.  See the installation and reference manual in the @file{strisdn/doc/manual}
subdirectory for more information on this subpackage.

@node strss7
@subsection strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}

The @cite{STREAMS SS7/VoIP/ISDN/SIGTRAN} (@command{strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}}) package contains
a wide array of signalling and call control packages for use in development of switching platforms
for legacy and VoIP networks.

The components in this subpackage are the
SS7
components that were originally part of the @command{strss7} package.@footnote{The @command{strss7}
package was getting much too large and was split into @command{strchan}, @command{strsio},
@command{strisdn}, @command{strss7}, @command{sigtran} and @command{strvoip} sub-packages.}

This package is a work in progress and partially tested.   This package relies upon the presence of
the following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS ISDN} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}}).
@end enumerate

This package is contained in the @file{stacks} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.

@node sigtran
@subsection sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}

The @cite{STREAMS SIGTRAN} (@command{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}}) package contains a wide array
of Signalling Transport components used for telephony signalling over SCTP/IP.

The components in this subpackage are the
SIGTRAN
components that were originally part of the @command{strss7} package.@footnote{The @command{strss7}
package was getting much too large and was split into @command{strchan}, @command{strsio},
@command{strisdn}, @command{strss7}, @command{sigtran} and @command{strvoip} sub-packages.}

This package is a work in progress and partially tested.   This package relies upon the presence of
the following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISDN} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS SS7} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}}).
@end enumerate

@node strvoip
@subsection strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}

The components in this subpackage are the
VoIP
components that were originally part of the @command{strss7} package.@footnote{The @command{strss7}
package was getting much too large and was split into @command{strchan}, @command{strsio},
@command{strisdn}, @command{strss7}, @command{sigtran} and @command{strvoip} sub-packages.}

This package is a work in progress and partially tested.   This package relies upon the presence of
the following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS INET} (@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SCTP} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Channels} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISO} (@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS ISDN} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS SS7} (@command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}}), and
@item @cite{STREAMS SIGTRAN} (@command{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}}).
@end enumerate

The @cite{STREAMS VoIP} (@command{strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}}) package contains

@node osr61
@subsection osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}

The components in this subpackage are the
Dialogic Open System Release 6.1
components that were originally in the Dialogic Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL drivers
release package from @url{http://www.dialogic.com/, Dialogic}.

This package is a work in progress and is untested.   This package relies upon the presence of
the following packages also included in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}:

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS Compatibility Modules} (@command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNS} (@command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}),
@item @cite{STREAMS XNET} (@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}),
@end enumerate

@node LiS
@subsection LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}

The @cite{Linux STREAMS} (@command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}}) package is the deprecated @cite{Linux
STREAMS} package first available from @uref{http://www.gcom.com/, GCOM} and later supported by
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project} for a number of years.  @emph{Do not use this
package.} @footnote{@dfn{LiS} is only included in this release for those that are so impossibly
behind on the development evolutionary scale that they simply do not have the genetic material to
evolve to the superior @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  We pity you (as we pity pond scum).} @dfn{LiS}
has always been buggy and impossible to fix.  Use @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
(@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}) instead.  By default, this master package will build
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and will build all other sub-packages for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

This package is contained in the @file{LiS} subdirectory in the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} source
distribution.

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex files

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does not install and files of it own and is simply a master package for
the coordinated build and installation of the contained sub-packages.

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does not install any drivers of its own and is simply a master package for
the coordinated build and installation of the contained sub-packages.

@dfn{STREAMS} drivers contained in sub-packages consist of the following:

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65
@item @file{streams_clone.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{clone(4)}.
@item @file{streams_echo.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{echo(4)}.
@item @file{streams_fifo.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{fifo(4)}.
@item @file{streams_log.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{log(4)}.
@item @file{streams_loop.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{loop(4)}.
@item @file{streams_mux.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{mux(4)}.
@item @file{streams_nsdev.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{nsdev(4)}.
@item @file{streams_nuls.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{nuls(4)}.
@item @file{streams_pipe.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{pipe(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sad.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sad(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sfx.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sfx(4)}.
@item @file{streams_spx.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{spx(4)}.
@item @file{streams_ip_to_dlpi.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{ip_to_dlpi(4)}.
@item @file{streams_ldl.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{ldl(4)}.
@item @file{streams_np_ip.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{np_ip(4)}.
@item @file{streams_inet.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{inet(4)}.
@item @file{streams_rawip.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{rawip(4)}.
@item @file{streams_tcp.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{tcp(4)}.
@item @file{streams_udp.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{udp(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sctp.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sctp(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sdlm.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sdlm(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sl_mux.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sl_mux(4)}.
@item @file{streams_x100p-ss7.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{x100p-ss7(4)}.
@item @file{streams_x400p-ss7.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{x400p-ss7(4)}.
@item @file{streams_dlgn.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{dlgn(4)}.
@item @file{streams_gncfd.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{gncfd(4)}.
@item @file{streams_gpio.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{gpio(4)}.
@item @file{streams_mercd.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{mercd(4)}.
@item @file{pmacd.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{pmacd(4)}.
@end multitable

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does not install any drivers of its own and is simply a master package for
the coordinated build and installation of the contained sub-packages.

@dfn{STREAMS} modules contained in sub-packages consist of the following:

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65
@item @file{streams_sth.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sth(4)}.
@item @file{streams_bufmod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{bufmod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_connld.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{connld(4)}.
@item @file{streams_nullmod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{nullmod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_pipemod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{pipemod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sc.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sc(4)}.
@item @file{streams_testmod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{testmod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_ip_strm_mod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{ip_strm_mod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_timod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{timod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_tirdwr.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{tirdwr(4)}.
@item @file{streams_tpiperf.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{tpiperf(4)}.
@item @file{streams_m2pa_sl.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{m2pa_sl(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sdl.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sdl(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sdl_sctp.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sdl_sctp(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sdt.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sdt(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sdt_sctp.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sdt_sctp(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sl.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sl(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sl_tpi.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sl_tpi(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sm_mod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sm_mod(4)}.
@item @file{streams_spm.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{spm(4)}.
@item @file{streams_dvbm.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{dvbm(4)}.
@item @file{streams_sctmr.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{sctmr(4)}.
@item @file{ctimod.ko}
@tab For more information, see @manref{ctimod(4)}.
@end multitable

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Libraries
@section Libraries
@cindex libraries

@menu
* iperf Libraries::
* streams Libraries::
* strtty Libraries::
* strxnet Libraries::
* strnsl Libraries::
* strsock Libraries::
* striso Libraries::
* osr61 Libraries::
* LiS Libraries::
@end menu

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does not install any libraries of its own and is simply a master package for
the coordinated build and installation of the contained sub-packages.

During the installation process of the sub-packages, subroutine libraries are built and installed on
the system.  For 64-bit systems that support 32-bit compatibility, two version of each library are
built and installed: one 64-bit native library and one 32-bit compatibility library.  64-bit native
libraries are installed to the @file{/@-usr/@-lib@-64/@-} subdirectory; 32-bit native and 32-bit
compatibility libraries are installed to the @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} subdirectory.

Libraries contained in sub-packages consist of the following:

@table @file

@item libstreams

This is a @dfn{STREAMS} library installed by the @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} package
providing usable @manref{getmsg(2)}, @manref{getpmsg(2)}, @manref{putmsg(2)}, @manref{putpmsg(2)}
and @manref{isastream(2)} system call emulation.

@item libtty

This is a @dfn{TTY} library installed by the @command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}} package
providing a set of Pseudo-Terminal device functions described in Section 3 of the manual pages,
starting with @manref{tty(3)}.

@item libxnet

This is an @dfn{XTI/TLI} library installed by the @command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} package
providing a set of XTI/TLI functions described in Section 3 of the manual pages, starting with
@manref{xti(3)}.

@item libxnsl

This is an @dfn{NSL} library installed by the @command{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}} package
providing a set of NSL functions described in Section 3 of the manual pages, starting with
@manref{nsl(3)}.

@item libsocket

This ia a @dfn{Sockets} library installed by the @command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} package
providing a set of Socket functions described in Section 3 of the manual pages, starting with
@manref{libsocket(3)}.

@item libsockpath

This ia a @dfn{Sockets} library installed by the @command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} package
providing a set of Socket functions described in Section 3 of the manual pages, starting with
@manref{libsockpath(3)}.

@item libLiS
@itemx libpLiS

These are @dfn{STREAMS} libraries formerly installed by the @command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}}
package providing usable @manref{getmsg(2)}, @manref{getpmsg(2)}, @manref{putmsg(2)},
@manref{putpmsg(2)} and @manref{isastream(2)} system call emulation.

These libraries are also installed by the @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} package for
backward compatibility with @dfn{LiS}.

@end table

@node iperf Libraries
@subsection iperf

@node streams Libraries
@subsection streams

@subsubsection libstreams Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libstreams} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{fattach(2)} --
@tab Name a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fattach(2)}.
@item @manpage{fdetach(2)} --
@tab Unname a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fdetach(2)}.
@item @manpage{getmsg(2)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{getpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getpmsg(2s)}.
@item @manpage{isastream(2)} --
@tab Test for a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{isastream(2)}.
@item @manpage{pipe(2s)} --
@tab Create a @dfn{STREAMS} pipe.
For more information, see @manref{pipe(2s)}.
@item @manpage{putmsg(2)} --
@tab Put a message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{putpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Put a band message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putpmsg(2s)}.
@item @manpage{pstrlog(3)} --
@tab Print a @dfn{STREAMS} log buffer.
For more information, see @manref{pstrlog(3)}.
@item @manpage{strlog(3)} --
@tab Print a @dfn{STREAMS} log buffer.
For more information, see @manref{strlog(3)}.
@item @manpage{vstrlog(3)} --
@tab Print a @dfn{STREAMS} log buffer.
For more information, see @manref{vstrlog(3)}.
@end multitable

@subsubsection libLiS Library Routines

For more information on this compatibility library, see @xref{LiS Libraries}.

@subsubsection libpLiS Library Routines

For more information on this compatibility library, see @xref{LiS Libraries}.

@node strtty Libraries
@subsection strtty

@subsubsection libtty Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libtty} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{openpt(3tty)} --
@tab Open a master pseudo-terminal.
For more information, see @manref{openpt(3tty)}.
@item @manpage{ptsname(3tty)} --
@tab Obtain name for slave device.
For more information, see @manref{ptsname(3tty)}.
@item @manpage{grantpt(3tty)} --
@tab Grant access to slave device.
For more information, see @manref{granpt(3tty)}.
@item @manpage{unlockpt(3tty)} --
@tab Unlock the pseudo-terminal.
For more information, see @manref{unlockpt(3tty)}.
@end multitable

@node strxnet Libraries
@subsection strxnet

@subsubsection libxnet Library Routines

@node strnsl Libraries
@subsection strnsl

@subsubsection libxnsl Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libxnsl} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} --
@tab Unbind from the network selection database.
For more information, see @manref{endnetconfig(3)}.
@item @manpage{endnetpath(3)} --
@tab Unbind from the @env{NETPATH} database.
For more information, see @manref{endnetpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{freenetconfigent(3)} --
@tab Free a network selection database entry.
For more information, see @manref{freenetconfigent(3)}.
@item @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} --
@tab get an entry from the network selection database.
For more information, see @manref{getnetconfig(3)}.
@item @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} --
@tab get an entry from the network selection database by network id.
For more information, see @manref{getnetconfigent(3)}.
@item @manpage{getnetpath(3)} --
@tab get entry from @env{NETPATH} database.
For more information, see @manref{getnetpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{nc_perror(3)} --
@tab Print a network selection error message.
For more information, see @manref{nc_perror(3)}.
@item @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} --
@tab Obtain a network selection error message.
For more information, see @manref{nc_sperror(3)}.
@item @manpage{_nderror(3)} --
@tab Network selection error number.
For more information, see @manref{_nderror(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_free(3)} --
@tab Free network selection database data structures.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_free(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_getbyaddr(3)} --
@tab Look up host and service names in directory service by address.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_getbyaddr(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} --
@tab Look up address in directory service by name.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_getbyname(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_options(3)} --
@tab Perform options management on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_options(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_perror(3)} --
@tab Print network directory error message.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_perror(3)}.
@item @manpage{netdir_sperror(3)} --
@tab Obtain network directory error message.
For more information, see @manref{netdir_sperror(3)}.
@item @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} --
@tab Bind to or rewind the network selection database.
For more information, see @manref{setnetconfig(3)}.
@item @manpage{setnetpath(3)} --
@tab Bind to or rewind the @env{NETPATH} database.
For more information, see @manref{setnetpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{taddr2uaddr(3)} --
@tab Convert a transport address to a universal address.
For more information, see @manref{taddr2uaddr(3)}.
@item @manpage{uaddr2taddr(3)} --
@tab Convert a universal address to a transport address.
For more information, see @manref{uaddr2taddr(3)}.
@end multitable

@node strsock Libraries
@subsection strsock

@subsubsection libsocket Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libsocket} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

@subsubsection libsockpath Library Routines

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{accept(3)} --
@tab Accept a transport connection.
For more information, see @manref{accept(3)}.
@item @manpage{bind(3)} --
@tab Bind a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{bind(3)}.
@item @manpage{connect(3)} --
@tab Establish a transport connection.
For more information, see @manref{connect(3)}.
@item @manpage{getpeername(3)} --
@tab Get name of remote transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{getpeername(3)}.
@item @manpage{getsockname(3)} --
@tab Get name of local transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{getsockname(3)}.
@item @manpage{getsockopt(3)} --
@tab Get a socket option.
For more information, see @manref{getsockopt(3)}.
@item @manpage{listen(3)} --
@tab Listen for connections on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{listen(3)}.
@item @manpage{recv(3)} --
@tab Receive data on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{recv(3)}.
@item @manpage{recvfrom(3)} --
@tab Receive data from a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{recvfrom(3)}.
@item @manpage{recvmsg(3)} --
@tab Receive a message on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{recvmsg(3)}.
@item @manpage{send(3)} --
@tab Send data on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{send(3)}.
@item @manpage{sendmsg(3)} --
@tab Send a message on a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{sendmsg(3)}.
@item @manpage{sendto(3)} --
@tab Send data to a transport endpoint.
For more information, see @manref{sendto(3)}.
@item @manpage{setsockopt(3)} --
@tab Set a socket option.
For more information, see @manref{setsockopt(3)}.
@item @manpage{shutdown(3)} --
@tab Shut down a transport connection.
For more information, see @manref{shutdown(3)}.
@item @manpage{socket(3)} --
@tab Create a socket.
For more information, see @manref{socket(3)}.
@item @manpage{socketpair(3)} --
@tab Create a connected pair of sockets.
For more information, see @manref{socketpair(3)}.
@end multitable

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libsockpath} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{setsockpath(3)} --
@tab Access the sock2path database.
For more information, see @manref{setsockpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{getsockpath(3)} --
@tab Get next sock2path database entry.
For more information, see @manref{getsockpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{endsockpath(3)} --
@tab Close sock2path database.
For more information, see @manref{endsockpath(3)}.
@item @manpage{getsockpathent(3)} --
@tab Get a sock2path database entry.
For more information, see @manref{getsockpathent(3)}.
@item @manpage{freesockpathent(3)} --
@tab Free a sock2path database entry.
For more information, see @manref{freesockpathent(3)}.
@end multitable

@node striso Libraries
@subsection striso

@subsubsection libiso Library Routines

In the future the @file{libiso} libraries will provide the SunLink X.25 interface routines.

@node osr61 Libraries
@subsection osr61

Although the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Open System Release 6.1 contains quite a few runtime
libraries, these libraries currently have licensing too restrictive for an open source release.
Check the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} @url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/,Open System Release}
website for how to obtain the runtime libraries.

@node LiS Libraries
@subsection LiS

@subsubsection libLiS Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libLiS} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

See also @xref{streams Libraries}.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{fattach(2)} --
@tab Name a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fattach(2)}.
@item @manpage{fdetach(2)} --
@tab Unname a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fdetach(2)}.
@item @manpage{getmsg(2)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{getpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getpmsg(2s)}.
@item @manpage{isastream(2)} --
@tab Test for a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{isastream(2)}.
@item @manpage{pipe(2s)} --
@tab Create a @dfn{STREAMS} pipe.
For more information, see @manref{pipe(2s)}.
@item @manpage{putmsg(2)} --
@tab Put a message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{putpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Put a band message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putpmsg(2s)}.
@end multitable

@subsubsection libpLiS Library Routines

The following subroutines are present in the @file{libpLiS} libraries.  The routines in these
libraries are standard @dfn{STREAMS} interface system calls documented in the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual -- STREAMS}.  Refer to the
associated manual pages for detailed information on these subroutines.

See also @xref{streams Libraries}.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @manpage{fattach(2)} --
@tab Name a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fattach(2)}.
@item @manpage{fdetach(2)} --
@tab Unname a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{fdetach(2)}.
@item @manpage{getmsg(2)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{getpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Get next message off a Stream.
For more information, see @manref{getpmsg(2s)}.
@item @manpage{isastream(2)} --
@tab Test for a @dfn{STREAMS} special file.
For more information, see @manref{isastream(2)}.
@item @manpage{putmsg(2)} --
@tab Put a message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putmsg(2)}.
@item @manpage{putpmsg(2s)} --
@tab Put a band message to a @dfn{STREAMS} special device.
For more information, see @manref{putpmsg(2s)}.
@end multitable

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does not install any drivers of its own and is simply a master package for
the coordinated build and installation of the contained sub-packages.

Utilities contained in sub-packages consist of the following:

@emph{This section is incomplete.}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Development
@section Development
@cindex developing

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} sub-packages install info manuals, manual pages, header files, static and
shared libraries, and kernel modules in a structured manner.

@menu
* User Visible Header Files::
* Shared and Static Libraries::
* Kernel Module Development::
* Manual Pages::
@end menu

@node User Visible Header Files
@subsection Header Files

Header files are installed, typically, in the @file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@var{name}/} subdirectory,
where @var{name} is the name of the package.@footnote{That is, where @emph{name} is one of
@file{sctp}, @file{iperf}, @file{streams}, @file{strcompat}, @file{strutil}, @file{strxns},
@file{strxnet}, @file{strnsl}, @file{strinet}, @file{strtty}, @file{striso}, @file{strchan},
@file{strsctp}, @file{netperf}, or @file{LiS}.} To use the header files from one of the packages,
@samp{-I/@-usr/@-include/@-@var{name}/} must be included as a @command{gcc} compile option.  This is
true regardless of whether user space or kernel programs are being compiled.

In general, @samp{-I} include directives on the @command{gcc} command line should be ordered in the
reverse order of the dependencies between packages.  So, for example, if include files for all
add-on packages are required, the order of these directives should be:

@enumerate
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strvoip}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/sigtran}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strss7}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strisdn}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/striso}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strchan}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strsctp}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strinet}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strxnet}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strnsl}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strxns}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/strcompat}
@item @samp{-I/usr/include/streams}
@end enumerate

See the sections that follow for a list of the user-visible header files provided by each of the
add-on packages:

@menu
* sctp Header Files::
* iperf Header Files
* streams Header Files::
* strcompat Header Files::
* strutil Header Files::
* strbcm Header Files::
* strtty Header Files::
* strxns Header Files::
* strxnet Header Files::
* strnsl Header Files::
* strsock Header Files::
* strinet Header Files::
* strsctp Header Files::
* strchan Header Files::
* striso Header Files::
* netperf Header Files::
* strisdn Header Files::
* strss7 Header Files::
* sigtran Header Files::
* strvoip Header Files::
* osr61 Header Files::
* LiS Header Files::
@end menu

@node sctp Header Files
@subsubsection sctp

The @command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} add-on package provides the following user-visible header
files in @file{/usr/include}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .74
@item @file{netinet/sctp.h}
@tab primary header file for @manref{sctp(7)}.
@end multitable

@node iperf Header Files
@subsubsection iperf

The @command{iperf-@value{VERSION_IPERF}} add-on package installs no header files.

@node streams Header Files
@subsubsection streams

The @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/streams}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{strlog.h}
@tab primary header file for the @manref{strlog(4)} driver.
@item @file{stropts.h}
@tab primary user header file for the @dfn{Stream head}.
@item @file{log.h}
@tab primary header file for the @manref{log(4)} driver.
@item @file{loop.h}
@tab primary header file for the @manref{loop(4)} driver.
@item @file{sad.h}
@tab primary header file for the @manref{sad(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/sad.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{sad(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/cmn_err.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for the @manref{cmn_err(9)} utility.
@item @file{sys/ddi.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for various @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{DDI(9)} utilities.
@item @file{sys/debug.h}
@item @file{sys/dki.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for various @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{DKI(9)} utilities.
@item @file{sys/kmem.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @manref{kmem_alloc(9)} and related utilities.
@item @file{sys/strconf.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} driver and module configuration.
@item @file{sys/strdebug.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} driver and module debugging macros.
@item @file{sys/stream.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules.
@item @file{sys/strlog.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{strlog(4)} and @manref{strlog(9)} facilities.
@item @file{sys/stropts.h}
@tab system specific user header file for the @dfn{Stream head}.
@item @file{sys/stropts32.h}
@tab system specific user 32/64-bit header file for the @dfn{Stream head}.
@item @file{sys/strsubr.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} private definitions.
@item @file{sys/log.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{log(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/loop.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{loop(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/sad.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{sad(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/sc.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{sc(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/testmod.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{testmod(4)} module.
@end multitable

@node strcompat Header Files
@subsubsection strcompat

The @command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strcompat}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/ddi.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for various @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{DDI(9)} utilities.
@item @file{sys/strconf.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} driver and module configuration.
@item @file{sys/stream.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules.
@item @file{sys/strsun.h}
@tab @cite{Solaris/SunOS} system specific kernel header file.
@item @file{sys/sunddi.h}
@tab @cite{Solaris/SunOS} system specific kernel header file.
@item @file{sys/os7/compat.h}
@tab @cite{OpenSS7} system specific kernel header file.
@end multitable

The @file{sys/ddi.h}, @file{ssy/strconf.h} and @file{sys/stream.h} header files installed by this
package are intended to override those from the @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} add-on
package.  To accomplish this, @samp{-I/usr/include/strcompat} must appear on the @command{gcc}
command line ahead of @samp{-I/usr/include/streams}.

@node strutil Header Files
@subsubsection strutil

The @command{strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}} add-on package was deprecated with LiS and this
section has been deleted.

@node strbcm Header Files
@subsubsection strbcm

The @command{strbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}} add-on package was deprecated with LiS and this
section has been deleted.

@node strtty Header Files
@subsubsection strtty

The @command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/@-usr/@-in@-clude/@-str@-tty/@-}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/ttydev.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{sys/ttyio.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{sys/strtty.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{sys/pty.h}
@tab See @manref{pty(4)} for more information.
@item @file{ttychars.h}, @file{sys/ttychars.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{ttcompat.h}
@tab See @manref{ttcompat(4)} for more information.
@item @file{sgtty.h}, @file{sys/sgtty.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{termios.h}, @file{sys/termios.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@item @file{termio.h}, @file{sys/termio.h}
@tab replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.
@end multitable

@node strxns Header Files
@subsubsection strxns

The @command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strxns}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/cdi.h}
@tab system specific @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)} header file.
@item @file{sys/dlpi.h}
@tab system specific @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)} header file.
@item @file{sys/ldl.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ldl(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/npi.h}
@tab system specific @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)} header file.
@item @file{sys/npi_ip.h}
@tab system specific @cite{NPI for Internet Protocol (IP)} header file.
@end multitable

@node strxnet Header Files
@subsubsection strxnet

The @command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strxnet}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{ticlts.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{ticots.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{ticotsord.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@item @file{tihdr.h}
@tab kernel header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{tiuser.h}
@tab user header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{timod.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{timod(4)} module.
@item @file{tirdwr.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{tirdwr(4)} module.
@item @file{xti.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{xti_inet.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/ticlts.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticots.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticotsord.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/tihdr.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/tiuser.h}
@tab system specific user header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/timod.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{timod(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/tirdwr.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{tirdwr(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/tli.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Layer Interface (TLI)}.
@item @file{sys/tpi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/xti.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{sys/xti_atm.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, ATM specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_inet.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_ip.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_local.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, local declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_mosi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Minimal OSI specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_osi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, OSI specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, SCTP specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_tcp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, TCP specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_udp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, UDP specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_xti.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, XTI generic declarations.
@end multitable

@node strnsl Header Files
@subsubsection strnsl

The @command{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strnsl}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{netdir.h}
@tab primary header file for the Name-to-Address translation facility.
@item @file{netconfig.h}, @file{sys/netconfig.h}
@tab primary header file for the Network Selection facility.
@end multitable

@node strsock Header Files
@subsubsection strsock

The @command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strsock}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sockio.h}, @file{sys/sockio.h}
@tab primary header files defining input-output controls for sockets.
@item @file{sockmod.h}, @file{sys/sockmod.h}
@tab primary header files defining input-output controls for the @manpage{sockmod(4)} cooperating module.
@item @file{sockdb.h}, @file{sys/sockpath.h}, @file{sys/socklib.h}
@tab primary header files for the @manpage{sock2path(5)} database.
@item @file{socksys.h}, @file{sys/socksys.h} 
@tab primary header files defining input-output controls for the @manpage{socksys(4)} driver.
@end multitable

@node strinet Header Files
@subsubsection strinet

The @command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strinet}:
@footnote{Note that some of these header files are repeats of those found in the
@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} package: the reason for this is that the @command{strinet}
add-on package was also meant to be used in a stand-alone fashion with non-@cite{OpenSS7}
@cite{LiS}, even though this use is deprecated.}

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{ticlts.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{ticots.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{ticotsord.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticlts.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticots.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticotsord.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticotsord.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{xti.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{xti_inet.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_inet.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_ip.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, Internet Protocol specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_udp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, UDP specific declarations.
@item @file{sys/xti_tcp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}, XTI generic declarations.
@end multitable

@node strsctp Header Files
@subsubsection strsctp

The @command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strsctp}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/npi_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@end multitable

@node strchan Header Files
@subsubsection strchan

The @command{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strchan}:

@node striso Header Files
@subsubsection striso

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{xti.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{xti_osi.h}, @file{sys/xti_osi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} specifics.
@item @file{xti_mosi.h}, @file{sys/xti_mosi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Minimal OSI (mOSI)} specifics.
@end multitable

@node netperf Header Files
@subsubsection netperf

The @command{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}} add-on package does not provide any user-visible
header files.

@node strisdn Header Files
@subsubsection strisdn

The @command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strisdn}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/capi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN Common API (CAPI)}.
@item @file{sys/capi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN Common API (CAPI)} input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/cci.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Call Control Interface (CCI)}.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_gr303.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{GR-303} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_isdn.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{ISDN} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_lapd.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{Link Access Protocol (D-Channel)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_v52.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{V5.2} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{dua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/gr303_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{gr303(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/isdni.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Integrated Services Digital Network Interface (ISDNI)}.
@item @file{sys/isdni_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Integrated Services Digital Network Interface (ISDNI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/lapd_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{labd(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/lapf_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{labf(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/ph.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Physical Interface (PH)}.
@item @file{sys/q920.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{q920(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/v52_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{v52(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@end multitable

@node strss7 Header Files
@subsubsection strss7

The @command{strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strss7}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/cdi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)}.
@item @file{sys/cdi_daed.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)},
@cite{Delimination, Alignment and Error Detection} specifics.
@item @file{sys/cdi_hdlc.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)},
@cite{High-Level Data link Control} specifics.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/dlpi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)}.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_dua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{DASS/DPNSS User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_gr303.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{GR-303} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_gr303ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{GR-303 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_gsma.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{GSM-A Inteface} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_h225.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{H.225} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_isdn.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{ISDN} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_iua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{ISDN User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_lapb.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{Link Access Protocol (Balanced)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_lapd.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{Link Access Protocol (D-Channel)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_lapf.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{Link Access Protocol (Frame Relay)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_m2ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{MTP2 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_mtp2.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 2} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_v52.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{V5.2} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_v5ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{V5.2 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/npi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)}.
@item @file{sys/npi_ip.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_mtp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@item @file{sys/npi_sccp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_ss7.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Signalling System Number 7 (SS7)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_sscop.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Service-Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_tcp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/npi_udp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@cite{User Datagram Protocol (UDP)} specifics.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/tpi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/tpi_inet.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol} suite specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_ip.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_mtp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Message Transfer Part (MTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_sccp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_sl.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Signalling Link (SL)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_ss7.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Signalling System Number 7 (SS7)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_sscop.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Service-Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_tcap.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_tcp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/tpi_udp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@cite{User Datagram Protocol (UDP)} specifics.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{ticlts.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{ticots.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{ticotsord.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@item @file{tihdr.h}
@tab kernel header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{tiuser.h}
@tab user header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{timod.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{timod(4)} module.
@item @file{tirdwr.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{tirdwr(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/ticlts.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticlts(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticots.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticots(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/ticotsord.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{ticotsord(4)} device.
@item @file{sys/tihdr.h}
@tab system specific kernel header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/tiuser.h}
@tab system specific user header file for the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
@item @file{sys/timod.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{timod(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/tirdwr.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @manref{tirdwr(4)} module.
@item @file{sys/tli.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Transport Layer Interface (TLI)}.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{xti.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{xti_inet.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol Suite (INET)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}.
@item @file{sys/xti_atm.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_inet.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol Suite (INET)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_ip.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Internet Protocol (IP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_local.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{XTI Generic} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_mosi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Minimal OSI (mOSI)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_mtp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Message Transfer Part (MTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_osi.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_sccp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_sctp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_sl.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Signalling Link (SL)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_ss7.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Signalling System Number 7 (SS7)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_sscop.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Service-Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_tcap.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_tcp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_udp.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{User Datagram Protocol (UDP)} specifics.
@item @file{sys/xti_xti.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)},
@cite{XTI Generic} specifics.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/sockmod.h}
@tab
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{ss7/capi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN Common API (CAPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/capi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN Common API (CAPI)} input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/cci.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Call Control Interface (CCI)}.
@item @file{ss7/cdi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Communications Device Interface (CDI)}.
@item @file{ss7/chi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Channel Inteface (CHI)}.
@item @file{ss7/chi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Channel Inteface (CHI)} input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/devi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Device Inteface (DEVI)}.
@item @file{ss7/devi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Device Inteface (DEVI)} input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/dl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{dl(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/dl_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{dl(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/dlpi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/dua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{dua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/gr303_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{gr303(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/gr303ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{gr303ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/gsma_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{gsma(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/h225_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{h225(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/hdlc_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{hdlc(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/isdni.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Integrated Services Digital Network Interface (ISDNI)}.
@item @file{ss7/isdni_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Integrated Services Digital Network Interface (ISDNI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/isupi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN User Part Interface (ISUPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/isupi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{ISDN User Part Interface (ISUPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/iua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{iua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/lapb_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{labp(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/lapd_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{labd(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/lapf_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{labf(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/lki.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Link Interface (LKI)}.
@item @file{ss7/lki_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Link Interface (LKI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/lmi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Local Management Interface (LMI)}.
@item @file{ss7/lmi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Local Management Interface (LMI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/m2pa_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m2pa(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/m2ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m2ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/m3ua.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m3ua(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/m3ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m3ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/mgcp.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{mgcp(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/mgi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Media Gateway Interface (MGI)}.
@item @file{ss7/mgi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Media Gateway Interface (MGI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/mtp2_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{mtp2(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/mtp3b.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{mtp3b(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/mtp.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{mtp(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/mtpi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/mtp_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{mtp(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/mxi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Multiplex Interface (MXI)}.
@item @file{ss7/mxi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Multiplex Interface (MXI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/ph.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Physical Interface (PH)}.
@item @file{ss7/q920.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{q920(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/sccp.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{sccp(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/sccpi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/sccp_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{sccp(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/sctp.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{sctp(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/sctpi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol Inteface (SCTPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/sctpi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol Inteface (SCTPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/sdli.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)}.
@item @file{ss7/sdli_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/sdti.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)}.
@item @file{ss7/sdti_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/sl.h}
@tab header file fro the @manref{sl(4)} module.
@item @file{ss7/sli.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Link Interface (SLI)}.
@item @file{ss7/sli_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Link Interface (SLI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/slmi.h}
@item @file{ss7/slsi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Link Set Inteface (SLSI)}.
@item @file{ss7/slsi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Link Set Inteface (SLSI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/smi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Management Interface (SMI)}.
@item @file{ss7/smi_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Signalling Management Interface (SMI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/tcap.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{tcap(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/tcapi.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Transaction Capabilities Application Part Interface (TCAPI)}.
@item @file{ss7/tcap_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{Transaction Capabilities Application Part Interface (TCAPI)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/tc.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{tc(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/tr.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{tr(4)} driver.
@item @file{ss7/ua_lm.h}
@tab header file for @cite{User Adaptation Layer Management (UA-LM)}.
@item @file{ss7/ua_lm_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{User Adaptation Layer Management (UA-LM)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/v52_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{v52(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{ss7/v5ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{v5ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@end multitable

@node sigtran Header Files
@subsubsection sigtran

The @command{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/sigtran}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/dlpi_dua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{DASS/DPNSS User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_gr303ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{GR-303 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_iua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{ISDN User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_m2ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{MTP2 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dlpi_v5ua.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{V5.2 User Adaptation Layer} specifics.
@item @file{sys/dua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{dua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/gr303ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{gr303ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/iua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{iua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/m2pa_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m2pa(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/m2ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m2ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/m3ua.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m3ua(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/m3ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{m3ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{User Adaptation Layer Management (UA-LM)}.
@item @file{sys/ua_lm.h}
@tab header file for @cite{User Adaptation Layer Management (UA-LM)}.
@item @file{sys/ua_lm_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for @cite{User Adaptation Layer Management (UA-LM)}, input-output controls.
@item @file{sys/v5ua_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{v5ua(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@end multitable

@node strvoip Header Files
@subsubsection strvoip

The @command{strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}} add-on package provides the following user-visible
header files in @file{/usr/include/strvoip}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/dlpi_h225.h}
@tab system specific header file for the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)},
@cite{H.225} specifics.
@item @file{sys/h225.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{h225(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/h225_ioctl.h}
@tab header file for the @manref{h225(4)} driver, input-output controls.
@end multitable

@node osr61 Header Files
@subsubsection osr61

The @command{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}} add-on package provides the following user-visible header
files in @file{/usr/include/osr61}:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .75
@item @file{sys/dlgn.h}
@tab system specific header file including declarations for the exported symbols from the
@manpage{dlgn(4)} driver.
@item @file{sys/ctimod.h}
@tab system specific header file including declarations for the exported symbols from the
@manpage{ctimod(4)} kernel module.
@end multitable

@node LiS Header Files
@subsubsection LiS

The @command{strvoip-@value{VERSION_LIS}} package provides user-visible header files in
@file{/@-usr/@-in@-clude/@-LiS/@-}.  The mess of header files provided by LiS is convoluted and
overly complex and will not be outlined here.  LiS is deprecated.  Please do not use it.

@node Shared and Static Libraries
@subsection Libraries

Shared or static libraries must be linked when using the
@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} (@file{libstreams}),
@command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}} (@file{libtty}),
@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} (@file{libxnet}),
@command{strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}} (@file{libxnsl}),
@command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} (@file{libsocket} and @file{libsockpath}) or
@command{LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}} packages (@file{libLiS} or @file{libpLiS}).
These libraries must either be specified on the @command{gcc} command line as shared libraries (e.g.
@samp{-lstreams -lxnet -lsocket}) or as static libraries (e.g. @samp{/@-usr/@-lib/@-libstreams.a
/@-usr/@-lib/@-libxnet.a /@-usr/@-lib/@-libsocket.a}).

If all shared libraries are linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@multitable @columnfractions .30 .70
@item @samp{-lstreams}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libstreams.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-ltty}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libtty.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lxnet}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lxnsl}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnsl.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lsocket}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libsocket.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lsockpath}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libsockpath.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lLiS}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libLiS.so} shared library.
@item @samp{-lpLiS}
@tab Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libpLiS} shared library.
@end multitable

If all static libraries are linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@multitable @columnfractions .30 .70
@item @file{/usr/lib/libstreams.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libstreams.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libtty.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libtty.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libxnsl.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libxnsl.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libsocket.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libsocket.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libsockpath.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libsockpath.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libLiS.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libLiS.a} static library.
@item @file{/usr/lib/libpLiS.a}
@tab Link with the @file{/usr/lib/libpLiS.a} static library.
@end multitable

@node Kernel Module Development
@subsection Kernel Modules

Developing @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules is similar to user space programs with regard to header
files.  @samp{/usr/include/@var{name}} should be placed in the @command{gcc} command line.  The
rules for compiling @cite{Linux} kernel modules should be followed.  In particular, several
important intricacies should be considered:

@itemize

@item The @command{gcc} compiler used to compile the kernel modules must be the same version of
compiler that was used to compile the kernel.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must have the same compile flags that were used to compile the
kernel.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must define several important kernel defines including
@samp{-DLINUX}, @samp{-D__KERNEL__}, as well as the base name of the module.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must include several important include files directly on the
command line such as @samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-`uname
-r`/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-autoconf.h} and maybe even @samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-`uname
-r`/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-modversions.h}.

@end itemize

@node Manual Pages
@subsection Manual Pages

Sub-packages install a number of manual pages.  All sub-packages combined install over 1000 manual
packages for use by developers and administrators.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

Each add-on package to the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} has its own set of conformances to @emph{ipso
facto} or @emph{standards} specifications.  In general, however, most of the add-on packages can
only to either @emph{ipso facto} nor @emph{standards} specifications when used with @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

@cite{LiS}, on the other hand, is so buggy and non-conformant to @cite{POSIX/SuSv3} specifications,
that it is impossible to expect add-on packages built against @cite{LiS} to conform in many
respects.  Do not use @cite{LiS}, use the superior @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} instead.

@menu
* STREAMS Compatibility::
* Porting::
@end menu

@node STREAMS Compatibility
@section STREAMS Compatibility
@cindex compatibility

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of compatibility with other @dfn{STREAMS}
implementation as follows:

@table @cite
@item --- SVR 4.2 ES/MP
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{SVR 4.2 ES/MP}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{SVR 4.2 Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- AIX 5L Version 5.1
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{AIX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- HP-UX 11.0i v2
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{HP-UX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{OSF/1 Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{UnixWare Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{Solaris Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- SUPER-UX
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{SUPER-UX}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{SUX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- UXP/V
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{UXP/V}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{UXP Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- LiS-2.16.18
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{LiS 2.16}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{LiS Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.
@end table

For additional details,
@pxref{Top, , About This Manual, SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@node Porting
@section Porting
@cindex porting

@table @cite
@item --- SVR 4.2 ES/MP
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{SVR 4.2 ES/MP}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from SVR 4.2 MP, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- AIX 5L Version 5.1
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from AIX 5L Version 5.1, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- HP-UX 11.0i v2
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from HP-UX 11.0i v2, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8), , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- SUPER-UX
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{SUPER-UX}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from SUPER-UX, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- UXP/V
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{UXP/V}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from UXP/V, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- LiS-2.16.18
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{LiS-2.16.18}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from Linux STREAMS (LiS) 2.16.18, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.
@end table

For additional details,
@pxref{Top, , About This Manual, porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* University of Illinois License::	The UI license
* Hewlett-Packard License::		The HP license
* BSD/USL Combined License::		The BSD license
* Sun RPC License::			The TIRPCSRC license
* UNIX International DLPI License::	The DLPI license
* UNIX International NPI License::	The NPI license
* UNIX International TPI License::	The TPI license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/ui.texi
@page
@include texi/hp.texi
@page
@include texi/uslbsd.texi
@page
@include texi/sunrpc.texi
@page
@include texi/uidlpi.texi
@page
@include texi/uinpi.texi
@page
@include texi/uitpi.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
