@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: prerequisites.texi,v 1.1.2.5 2011-07-27 07:52:13 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2011-07-27 07:52:13 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

When building from source RPM or DSC, the prerequisites for building must be met.  Most RPM or DEB
build prerequisites are automatic; however, some prerequisites must still be met manually.  When
building from tarball, most prerequisites must be met manually.  The @command{configure} script will
inform you of most missing prerequisites and the actions that must be performed to meet those
prerequisites.

Prerequisites for building @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@enumerate 1
@item
@cite{Linux} distribution, somewhat @cite{Linux Standards Base} compliant, with a 2.4, 2.6 or 3.x
kernel and the appropriate tool chain for compiling out-of-tree kernel modules.  Most recent
@cite{Linux} distributions are usable out of the box, but some development packages must be
installed.  For more information, see @refman{Compatibility}.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.05 0.95
@item @tab @minus{}
A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.@footnote{See @refman{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for
more information.}
@item @tab @minus{}
Linux 2.4 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27), or
@item @tab @minus{}
Linux 2.6 kernel (2.6.3 - 2.6.38);
@item @tab @minus{}
glibc2 or better.
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU groff (for man pages).@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install
the groff extension package (@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or
@command{grefer} commands necessary for including references in the manual pages.}
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU texinfo (for info files).
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU bison and flex (for config programs).
@item @tab @minus{}
net-snmp (for SNMP agents).@footnote{A wide range of net-snmp releases are supported, from UCD-SNMP
4.2.5 through net-snmp 5.4.}
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU gcj and classpath (for Java modules).
@item @tab @minus{}
swig (for Java, Tcl, Perl and Ruby interfaces).
@end multitable
@end enumerate

@noindent
The following will meet most additional prerequisites for a CentOS/RHEL 5.5 build host:

@example
#> yum install bzip2 chkconfig coreutils createrepo doxygen \
        gcc-java ghostscript gjdoc glibc gnupg gnuplot \
        groff gzip ImageMagick kernel-devel latex2html \
        libgcj lsof module-init-tools rpm rpm-build tetex \
        tetex-dvips tetex-latex transfig xz xz-lzma-compat \
        zip
@end example

@noindent
The following will meet most additional prerequisites for a CentOS/RHEL 6.0 build host:

@example
#> yum install bzip2 chkconfig coreutils createrepo doxygen \
	gcc-java ghostscript glibc gnuplot groff gzip ImageMagick \
	java-1.6.0-openjdk-devel java-1.6.0-openjdk-javadoc \
	kabi-whitelists kernel kernel-devel latex2html libgcj \
	libgcj-devel lsof module-init-tools net-snmp-devel \
	perl-devel rpm rpm-build tcl-devel texlive texlive-dvips \
	texlive-latex texlive-utils transfig xz zip
@end example

@noindent
The following will meet most additional prerequisites for a SuSE Linux Enterprise 11 build host:

@example
#> zypper install aaa_base bzip2 coreutils createrepo doxygen \
        fastjar gcc43-gij gcc-java ghostscript-library gjdoc \
        glibc gnuplot gpg2 groff gzip ImageMagick inst-source-utils \
        kernel-default-devel latex2html lsof module-init-tools \
        rpm texlive texlive-latex transfig zip
@end example

@noindent
The following will meet most additional prerequisites for a Debian 6.0 build host:

@example
#> apt-get install apt-utils bzip2 coreutils createrepo doxygen \
        dpkg dpkg-dev fastjar gcj-jdk gcj-jre-headless ghostscript \
        gnupg gnuplot-nox gnuplot-x11 groff groff-base gzip \
        imagemagick insserv latex2html libc-bin lsof lzma \
        module-init-tools rpm texlive-binaries texlive-font-utils \
        texlive-latex-base transfig xz-utils zip
@end example
