@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 1.1.2.3 2011-04-11 06:13:42 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2011-04-11 06:13:42 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@menu
* Kernel Modules::
@end menu

@node Kernel Modules
@subsection Kernel Modules

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package directly builds and installs all of the kernel modules
needed by the package.@footnote{Kernel modules used to be built and installed by subtending add-on
packages, but this is no longer the case.}  The subsections that follow describe the kernel modules
installed by the package.

@menu
@c * sctp Kernel Modules::
* STREAMS Kernel Modules::
@c * strcompat Kernel Modules::
@c * strutil Kernel Modules::
@c * strbcm Kernel Modules::
* TTY Kernel Modules::
* XNS Kernel Modules::
* XNET Kernel Modules::
* SOCK Kernel Modules::
* INET Kernel Modules::
* SCTP Kernel Modules::
* CHAN Kernel Modules::
* X25 Kernel Modules::
* ISO Kernel Modules::
* ISDN Kernel Modules::
* ATM Kernel Modules::
* SS7 Kernel Modules::
* SIGTRAN Kernel Modules::
* VOIP Kernel Modules::
@c * osr61 Kernel Modules::
@end menu

@ignore
@node sctp Kernel Modules
@subsubsection sctp

The @command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} add-on package is a Linux Native Sockets implementation of
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP), and does not use @acronym{STREAMS}.  This package installs
one module that implements the SCTP socket functionality:

@table @file

@item sctp

This kernel module provides the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) sockets and the
@cite{OpenSS7} implementation of SCTP for sockets.
See @manref{sctp(7)} for more information.

@end table
@end ignore

@node STREAMS Kernel Modules
@subsubsection STREAMS

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a number of kernel modules used to implement the
@acronym{STREAMS} Shadow Special Filesystem, the @acronym{STREAMS} executive, and various base and
standard @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly
contained in the @command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} add-on package.}

@var{STREAMS} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item specfs

This kernel module contains the @acronym{STREAMS} Special Shadow Filesystem.
See @manref{specfs(5)} for more information.

@item streams

This kernel module contains the @acronym{STREAMS} scheduler, utility functions, and @acronym{STREAMS} Device
Driver Interface/Driver Kernel Interface (DDI/DKI).
See @manref{STREAMS(9)} for more information.

@item streams-srvmod

This kernel module contains the @file{srvmod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.  The @file{srvmod} @acronym{STREAMS}
module is a simple buffer module (a module that always defers to its service procedure and then
passes any message along).  This module is used for performance testing of the @acronym{STREAMS}
package.
See @manref{srvmod(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-connld

This kernel module contains the @file{connld} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module.
See @manref{connld(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-echo

This kernel module contains the @file{echo} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver, but is also used by the conformance and validation test suite.
See @manref{echo(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-fifo

This kernel module contains the @file{fifo} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver, but is also used by the conformance and validation test suite.
See @manref{fifo(4s)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-log

This kernel module contains the @file{log} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
See @manref{log(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-loop

This kernel module contains the @file{loop} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver, but is also used by the conformance and validation test suite.
See @manref{loop(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-mux

This kernel module contains the @file{mux} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver< but is also used by the conformance and validation test suite.
See @manref{mux(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-nsdev

This kernel module contains the @file{nsdev} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} specific driver.
See @manref{nsdev(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-nullmod

This kernel module contains the @file{nullmod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.  The @file{nullmod}
@acronym{STREAMS} module is a simple null module (a module that always passes messages to the next
module in along the Stream).  This module is used for performance testing of the @acronym{STREAMS}
package and is also used by the conformance and validation test suite.
See @manref{nullmod(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-nuls

This kernel module contains the @file{nuls} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module.
See @manref{nuls(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-pipemod

This kernel module contains the @file{pipemod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module used with pipes.
See @manref{pipemod(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-pipe

This kernel module contains the @file{pipe} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
See @manref{pipe(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-sad

This kernel module contains the @file{sad} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is the standard @acronym{STREAMS} Administrative Driver.
See @manref{sad(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-sc

This kernel module contains the @dfn{sc} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a common @acronym{STREAMS} Configuration module.
See @manref{sc(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-sfx

This kernel module contains the @dfn{sfx} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a common character device driver for implementing @acronym{STREAMS} FIFOs.
See @manref{sfx(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-spx

This kernel module contains the @dfn{spx} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a common character device driver for implementing @acronym{STREAMS} pipes.
See @manref{spx(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-testmod

This kernel module contains the @file{testmod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} specific test module that is used for conformance and validation
testing of @acronym{STREAMS}.
See @manref{testmod(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@ignore
@node strcompat Kernel Modules
@subsubsection strcompat

The @command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}} add-on package provides a number of kernel modules
that implement enhanced @acronym{STREAMS} and @dfn{DDI/DKI} functions in support of compatibility for
@acronym{STREAMS} driver and modules written for other implementations of @acronym{STREAMS}.

Kernel modules installed by @command{strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-aixcompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1}.
See @manref{aixcompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-hpuxcompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2}.
See @manref{hpuxcomat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-irixcompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{IRIX 6.5.17}.
See @manref{irixcompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-maccompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{MacOT 1.5r2}.
See @manref{maccompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-mpscompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{Mentat Portable STREAMS}.
See @manref{mpscompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-os7compat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{OpenSS7}.
See @manref{os7compat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-osfcompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{OSF1 1.2--Digital UNIX}.
See @manref{osfcompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-suncompat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9}.
See @manref{suncompat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-svr3compat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2}.
See @manref{svr3compat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-svr4compat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP}.
See @manref{svr4compat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-uw7compat

This kernel module provides compatibility to @acronym{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)}.
See @manref{uw7compat(9)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
@node strutil Kernel Modules
@subsubsection strutil

The @command{strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}} package is not currently contained in the release and
the kernel modules it installs are, therefore, not listed here.
@end ignore

@ignore
@node strbcm Kernel Modules
@subsubsection strbcm

The @command{strbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}} package is not currently contained in the release and
the kernel modules it installs are, therefore, not listed here.
@end ignore

@node TTY Kernel Modules
@subsubsection TTY

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides kernel modules for core @acronym{STREAMS} drivers
and modules written to the specifications for the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.@footnote{These
kernel modules were formerly contained in the @command{strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}} add-on
package.}

@var{TTY} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-pckt

This kernel module provides the classical @file{pckt} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.
When pushed on a master pseudo-terminal @dfn{Stream} it provides packetization of the messages
received from the master pseudo-terminal.
For more information, see @manref{pckt(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-ptem

This kernel module provides the classical @file{ptem} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.
When pushed on a slave pseudo-terminal @dfn{Stream} it provides terminal emulation for the
pseudo-terminal.
For more information, see @manref{ptem(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-ttcompat

This kernel module provides the classical @file{ttcompat} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.
When pushed on a slave pseudo-terminal or real terminal @dfn{Stream} it provides input-output
control compatibility all the way back to UNIX Version 7.
For more information, see @manref{ttcompat(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-ldterm

This kernel module provides the classical @file{ldterm} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.
When pushed on a terminal @dfn{Stream} it provides the line discipline for terminals.
For more information, see @manref{ldterm(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-pty

This kernel module provides the classical @file{pty} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} driver that is part of the @cite{SVR 4 Terminal Subsystem}.
The driver provides both slave and master pseudo-terminals.
For more information, see @manref{pty(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@node XNS Kernel Modules
@subsubsection XNS

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides kernel modules for sundry @acronym{STREAMS}
drivers and modules written to the specifications for @cite{X/Open Networking Services} and the
@dfn{CDI}, @dfn{DLPI} and @dfn{NPI} levels.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in
the @command{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} add-on package.}

@var{XNS} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-np_ip

This @acronym{STREAMS} driver was originally part of the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} distribution.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@node XNET Kernel Modules
@subsubsection XNET

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides several @acronym{STREAMS} modules that provide
capabilities first found in @cite{UNIX System V Release 4} that form part of the @dfn{Transport
Provider Interface (TPI)} networking capabilities.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly
contained in the @command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} add-on package.}

@var{XNET} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-timod

This kernel module provides the @file{timod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}
library capability.
When pushed on a @dfn{Stream} it provides a set of input-output controls that are used by the
@cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)} library (@file{libxnet}) to provide its functions.
See @manref{timod(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-tirdwr

This kernel module provides the @file{tirdwr} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This is a standard @acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)}
library capability.
When pushed on a @dfn{Stream} it provides the ability to @manpage{read(2s)} from and
@manpage{write(2s)} to a
@dfn{Stream} supporting the @dfn{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.
See @manref{tirdwr(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@node SOCK Kernel Modules
@subsubsection SOCK

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a number of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  These drivers and modules provide capabilities first found in @cite{UNIX System
V Release 4} the form part of the @cite{POSIX Sockets} networking capabilities.@footnote{These
kernel modules were formerly contained in the @command{strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} add-on
package.}

@var{SOCK} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-sockmod

This kernel modules provides the @file{sockmod} @acronym{STREAMS} module.  This is a standard
@acronym{STREAMS} module that is part of the @cite{POSIX Sockets} library capability.  When pushed on a
@dfn{Stream} it provides a set of input-output controls that are used by the @cite{POSIX Sockets}
library (@file{libsocket}) to provide its functions.
For more information, see @manref{sockmod(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-socksys

This kernel module provides the @file{socksys} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.  This is a standard
@acronym{STREAMS} driver that is part of the @cite{POSIX Sockets} capability.  When a @dfn{Stream} is
opened on this driver, it directly provides a system call Socket interface to the @dfn{Stream} using
native system calls (that is, the @file{libsocket} library is not required).
For more information, see @manref{socksys(4)}.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@node INET Kernel Modules
@subsubsection INET

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a number of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and kernel
modules.  The original package provided only the @dfn{XTIOS (XTI over Sockets)} approach @file{inet}
driver, however, the current package also provides implementations of these drivers written directly
in @acronym{STREAMS}.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in the
@command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} add-on package.}

@var{INET} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-inet

This kernel module provides the first-generation @file{inet} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver provides @acronym{STREAMS} access to @dfn{TCP/IP} and @dfn{UNIX} domain sockets based on the
@cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)} and supporting the @cite{X/Open Transport
Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI)} library.
See @manref{inet(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-rawip

This kernel module provides the second-generation @file{rawip} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver provides a second-generation @file{rawip} driver.  This difference between this
@file{rawip} driver and that provided by the @file{inet} module is that this driver does not open a
socket internal to the kernel and implements the driver as a full @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
See @manref{rawip(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-tcp

This kernel module provides the second-generation @file{tcp} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver provides a second-generation @file{tcp} driver.  This difference between this
@file{tcp} driver and that provided by the @file{inet} module is that this driver does not open a
socket internal to the kernel and implements the driver as a full @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
See @manref{tcp(4)} for more information.

@item streams-udp

This kernel module provides the second-generation @file{udp} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver provides a second-generation @file{udp} driver.  This difference between this
@file{udp} driver and that provided by the @file{inet} module is that this driver does not open a
socket internal to the kernel and implements the driver as a full @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
See @manref{udp(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@end table

@node SCTP Kernel Modules
@subsubsection SCTP

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a number of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers in kernel
modules.  This is the @acronym{STREAMS} implementation of Stream Control Transmission Protocol
(SCTP).@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in the
@command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} add-on package.}

@var{SCTP} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-sctp

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} implementation of Stream Control Transmission Protocol
(SCTP).
See @manref{sctp(4)} for more information.

This kernel module has been rolled into the @file{streams} kernel module.

@item streams-tpiperf

This kernel module provides a capability to perform in-kernel performance testing of drivers based
on the @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}.  It will eventually be moved to the
@command{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} add-on package.
See @manref{tpiperf(4)} for more information.

@end table

@node CHAN Kernel Modules
@subsubsection CHAN

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components for
@cite{Isochronous Channels} and related devices.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly
contained in the @command{strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}} add-on package.  A number of these
drivers and modules were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} add-on package
releases.}

@var{CHAN} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @asis

@item 

This add-on package currently installs no kernel modules.  Modules will be added from the commercial
release of @command{strss7} as they are re-validated on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@end table

@node X25 Kernel Modules
@subsubsection X25

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components in the
@cite{International Standards Organization (ISO)} @cite{X.25} model, and a number of @cite{Internet
Enginerring Task Force} related protocols.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in
the @command{strx25-@value{VERSION_STRX25}} add-on package.  A number of these drivers and modules
were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package releases.}

@var{X25} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-xot

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{xot} module.
This module provides a pushable module that implements @cite{RFC 1613} to provide
@cite{X.25 over TCP (XOT)}.  It provides a @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)},
@manpage{npi(7)}, for connectionless or connection-oriented service suitable for use with the
@cite{OSI Transport} drivers.
For more information, see @manref{xot(4)}.

@item streams-x25-lapb

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{lapb} driver.
This driver provides @cite{X.25 Link Access Protocol -- Balanced (LAPB)} data links.  It provides
the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)}, @manpage{dlpi(7)}.
For more information, see @manref{x25-lapb(4)}.

@item streams-x25-plp

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{plp} driver.
This driver provides @cite{X.25 Pakcet Layer Protocol (PLP)}.  It is able to link Streams that
provide the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)}, @manpage{dlpi(7)} for LAPB and LLC2.  It
provides the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)}, @manpage{npi(7)}, for connection-oriented
network service.
For more information, see @manref{x25-plp(4)}.

@end table


@node ISO Kernel Modules
@subsubsection ISO

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components in the
@cite{International Standards Organization (ISO)} @cite{Open Systems Interconnect} model, and a
number of @cite{Internet Enginerring Task Force} related protocols.@footnote{These kernel modules
were formerly contained in the @command{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} add-on package.  A number of
these drivers and modules were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package releases.}

@var{ISO} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-cmot

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{cmot} module.
This module provides a pushable module that implements @cite{RFC 1189 CMISE/CMIP over TCP}.  It
provides a @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}, @manpage{tpi(7)}, providing the mOSI
interface.
For more information, see @manref{cmot(4)}.

@item streams-isot

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{isot} module.
This module provides a pushable module that implements @cite{RFC 1006} to provide @cite{OSI
Transport Class 0} over TCP.
For more information, see @manref{isot(4)}.

@item streams-itot

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{itot} module.
This module provides a pushable module that implements @cite{RFC 2126} to provide @cite{OSI
Transport Class 0 and 2} over TCP.

For more information, see @manref{itot(4)}.

@item streams-lpp

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{lpp} module.
This module provides a pushable module that implemented @cite{RFC 1189} to provide
@cite{Lightweigth Presentation Protocol}.  It provides a @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)},
@manpage{tpi(7)}, mOSI interface.
For more information, see @manref{lpp(4)}.

@item streams-tcpns

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{tcpns} module.
This module provides a pushable modules that implements @cite{ISO CONS} over @cite{TCP}.
It provides a @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)}, @manpage{npi(7)}, for connectionless
network service.
For more information, see @manref{tcpns(4)}.

@item streams-clns

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{clns} driver.
This driver provides @cite{X.213 Connectionless Network Service (CLNS)}.  It is able to link Streams
that provide the @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)}, @manpage{npi(7)}, for connectionless
service.
For more information, see @manref{clns(4)}.

@end table

@node ISDN Kernel Modules
@subsubsection ISDN

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components in, or related to,
the @cite{Integrated Services Digital Network}.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly
contained in the @command{strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}} add-on package.  A number of these
drivers and modules were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package releases.}

@var{ISDN} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @asis

@item 

This add-on package currently installs no kernel modules.  Modules will be added from the commercial
release of @command{strss7} as they are re-validated on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@end table

@node ATM Kernel Modules
@subsubsection ATM

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components in, or related to,
the @cite{Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM)}.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained
in the @command{stratm-@value{VERSION_STRATM}} add-on package.  A number of these drivers and
modules were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package releases.}

@var{ATM} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @asis

@item 

This add-on package currently installs no kernel modules.  Modules will be added from the commercial
release of @command{strss7} as they are re-validated on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@end table

@node SS7 Kernel Modules
@subsubsection SS7

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a wide range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and
modules as kernel modules.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in the the
@command{strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}} add-on package.} The package comes in public and subscriber
versions.  The public version has far fewer modules than the subscriber version.  Listed below are
only the current public modules.

@var{SS7} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@ignore
@item streams-m2pa_sl

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{m2pa_sl} module.  This module provide an
implementation of @cite{MTP2 Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer}.
See @manref{m2pa_sl(4)} for more information.

@end ignore
@item streams-sdlm

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdlm} multiplexing driver.  This driver provide
a multiplexer for @cite{Signalling Data Links}.
See @manref{sdlm(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sdl

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdl} module.  This module provides a
@cite{Signalling Data Link} interface to any modules providing a @cite{Multiplex Interface (MX)}.
See @manref{sdl(4)} for more information.

@ignore
@item streams-sdl_sctp

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdl_sctp} module.  This module provides
@cite{SS7 over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Data Link} messages on the @cite{Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.
See @manref{sdl_sctp(4)} for more information.

@end ignore
@item streams-sdt

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdt} module.  This module provide a
@cite{Signalling Data Terminal} interface to any modules providing the @cite{Signalling Data Link}
interface.
See @manref{sdt(4)} for more information.

@ignore
@item streams-sdt_sctp

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdt_sctp} module.  This module provides @cite{SS7
over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Data Terminal} message on the @cite{Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.
See @manref{sdt_sctp(4)} for more information.

@end ignore
@item streams-sl_mux

This kernel modules provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sl_mux} multiplexing driver.  This module
provides a multiplexer for @dfn{Streams} supporting the @dfn{Signalling Data Link}, @dfn{Signalling
Data Terminal} or @dfn{Signalling Link} interfaces.
See @manref{sl_mux(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sl

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sl} module.  This module provides a
@cite{Signalling Link} interface to any modules providing a @cite{Signalling Data Terminal}
interface.  This module implements a @cite{Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part (MTP)
Level 2} state machine.
See @manref{sl(4)} for more information.

@ignore
@item streams-sl_tpi

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sl_tpi} module.  This module provides @cite{SS7
over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Link} messages on any @dfn{Stream} supporting the
@cite{Transport Provider Interface} (such as @cite{UDP} or @cite{SCTP}).
See @manref{sl_tpi(4)} for more information.

@end ignore
@item streams-sm_mod

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sm_mod} module.  This module provides a
simplistic @cite{SS7 MTP Level 3} capability using the @cite{Message Transfer Part Inteface (MTPI)}
service interface.
See @manref{sm_mod(4)} for more information.

@item streams-spm

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{spm} module.
See @manref{spm(4)} for more information.

@item streams-x100p-ss7

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{x100p-ss7} driver.
This driver provides SS7 signalling link support for the @cite{T100P} and @cite{E100P} cards.
See @manref{x100p-ss7(4)} for more information.

@item streams-x400p-ss7

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{x400p-ss7} driver.
This driver provides SS7 signalling link support for the @cite{E400P}, @cite{T400P}, @cite{V400P}
and @cite{V401P} cards.
See @manref{x400p-ss7(4)} for more information.

@end table

@node SIGTRAN Kernel Modules
@subsubsection SIGTRAN

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components of
@cite{Signalling Transport (SIGTRAN)} and related SS7 over IP protocols.@footnote{These kernel
modules were formerly contained in the @command{sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}} add-on package.  A
number of these drivers and modules were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package
releases.}

@var{SIGTRAN} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @file

@item streams-m2pa_sl

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{m2pa_sl} module.  This module provide an
implementation of @cite{MTP2 Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer}.
See @manref{m2pa_sl(4)} for more information.

@item streams-m2ua_as

This kernel modules provides the @dfn{STREAM} @file{m2ua_as} module.  This module provides an
implementation of @cite{MTP2 User Adaptaion Layer}.
See @manref{m2ua_as(4)} for more information.

@item streams-m3ua_as

This kernel modules provides the @dfn{STREAM} @file{m3ua_as} module.  This module provides an
implementation of @cite{MTP3 User Adaptaion Layer}.
See @manref{m3ua_as(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sdl_sctp

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdl_sctp} module.  This module provides
@cite{SS7 over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Data Link} messages on the @cite{Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.
See @manref{sdl_sctp(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sdt_sctp

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdt_sctp} module.  This module provides @cite{SS7
over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Data Terminal} message on the @cite{Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.
See @manref{sdt_sctp(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sdt_tpi

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sdt_tpi} module.  This module provides @cite{SS7
over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Data Terminal} messages on any @dfn{Stream} supporting
the @cite{Transport Provider Interface} (such as @cite{UDP} or @cite{SCTP}).
See @manref{sdt_tpi(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sl_tpi

This kernel module provides the @acronym{STREAMS} @file{sl_tpi} module.  This module provides @cite{SS7
over IP} by directly passing @cite{Signalling Link} messages on any @dfn{Stream} supporting the
@cite{Transport Provider Interface} (such as @cite{UDP} or @cite{SCTP}).
See @manref{sl_tpi(4)} for more information.

@end table

@node VOIP Kernel Modules
@subsubsection VOIP

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules
as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various protocol components for @cite{Voice
over IP} and related protocols.@footnote{These kernel modules were formerly contained in the
@command{strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}} add-on package.  A number of these drivers and modules
were originally part of the commercial @command{strss7} package releases.}

@var{VOIP} kernel modules installed by @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} are as follows:

@table @asis

@item 

This add-on package currently installs no kernel modules.  Modules will be added from the commercial
release of @command{strss7} as they are re-validated on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@end table

@ignore
@node osr61 Kernel Modules
@subsubsection osr61

The @command{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}} add-on package provides a range of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers
and modules as kernel modules.  The drivers and modules implement various device drivers and
components for the @cite{Dialogic Open System Release 6.1} supported devices.
All of these drivers and modules cam from the @url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/,Dialogic} Open
System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL drivers release.

Kernel modules installed by @command{osr61-@value{VERSION_OSR}} are as follows:

@table @asis

@item streams-dlgn

This kernel module contains the @file{dlgn} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware boards and the Antares boards.
See @manref{dlgn(4)} for more information.

@item streams-dvbm

This kernel module contains the @file{dvbm} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware boards and the Antares boards.
See @manref{dvbm(4)} for more information.

@item streams-gncfd

This kernel module contains the @file{gncfd} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware boards and the Antares boards.
See @manref{gncfd(4)} for more information.

@item streams-gpio

This kernel module contains the @file{gpio} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware boards and the Antares boards.
See @manref{gpio(4)} for more information.

@item streams-sctmr

This kernel module contains the @file{sctmr} @acronym{STREAMS} module.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware boards and the Antares boards.
See @manref{sctmr(4)} for more information.

@item streams-mercd

This kernel module contains the @file{mercd} @acronym{STREAMS} driver.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} DM3 boards.
See @manref{mercd(4)} for more information.

@item pmacd

This kernel module contains the @file{pmacd} driver.
This driver supports the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} IPT boards.
See @manref{pmacd(4)} for more information.

@item ctimod

This kernel module contains the @file{ctimod} kernel module.
This kernel module supports the @manpage{pmacd(4)} driver.
See @manref{ctimod(4)} for more information.

@end table
@end ignore

