\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) doc/manual/x400p.texi
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c

@setfilename x400p.info
@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE X400P Driver
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* X400P: (x400p).			X400P Driver Manual.
@end direntry

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE X400P Driver
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE X400P Driver
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 1
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@c @syncodeindex mp cp
@c @syncodeindex tp cp
@c @syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@shortcontents
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::
* Objective::
* Reference::
* Conformance::
* Releases::
* Installation::
* Troubleshooting::
* Licenses::
* Indices::
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

The X400P Driver provides a device driver for a number of current and
historical cards as follows:

@table @var

@item T400P
This is on of the original 4-span T1 cards based on the Dallas framer chips, designed by Jim Dixon and
distributed by Linux Support Services (now Digium).  These cards have been
manufacturer discontinued by Digium.

@item E400P
This is on of the original 4-span E1 cards based on the Dallas framer chips, designed by Jim Dixon and
distributed by Linux Support Services (now Digium).  These cards have been
manufacturer discontinued by Digium.

@item V400PT
This is the second generation 4-span T1 cards based on the Dallas framer
chips, designed by Jim Dixon and distributed by Varion, Inc.  These cards have
been manufacturer discontinued by Varion (for their lead content).

@item V400PE
This is the second generation 4-span E1 cards based on the Dallas framer
chips, designed by Jim Dixon and distributed by Varion, Inc.  These cards have
been manufacturer discontinued by Varion (for their lead content).

@item V401P
This is the third generation 4-span E1/T1 cards based on the Dallas framer
chips, designed by Jim Dixon and distributed by Varion, Inc.  These cards are
currently available from Varion.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation
@menu
* Monitoring::
@end menu

@node Monitoring
@section Monitoring
@cindex monitoring
@menu
* Monitoring Jack::
* Monitoring Patch Cable::
@end menu

Configuring the X400P driver for a monitoring configuration requires the use of
a monitoring port and monitoring patch cable that is detailed in the sections
that follow.

@node Monitoring Jack
@subsection Monitoring Jack
@cindex monitoring jack

Performing monitoring of T1/J1/E1 ports requires the use of a RJ48 or Bantaam
monitoring port.  Your T1/J1/E1 ports may already be through an RJ48 or Bantaam
patch panel (DSX) that is equipped with a monitoring port.  In this case you do
not need a separate monitoring port: all that is required is a @ref{Monitoring
Patch Cable}.

If your T1/J1/E1 spans are not patched through a patch panel (DSX) or DACCS,
you will need a separate monitoring box.  This is normally the case when
setting up a low-cost monitoring arrangement in the lab.  T1/J1/E1 monitoring
ports can be purchased from a number of sources; however, monitoring ports tend
to be expensive (as much a $50 to $150).  While the production monitoring ports
can be more reliable than the one that we provided instructions for assembling
here, the lowest cost arrangement by far is to construct your own monitoring
port.  A monitoring port for a single T1/J1/E1 span can be constructed for as
little as $6.00.

@subsubsection Monitoring Jack Construction
@cindex monitoring jack construction

An RJ48 monitoring jack can be constructed from the following parts:
@sp 1
@multitable @columnfractions .03 .67 .30
@item 1
@tab RJ48 Modular Wall Mount
@tab $3.99
@item 2
@tab 4 x 470 Ohm 1/4W Resistors
@tab $1.99
@item 3
@tab 4 x RJ45 Modular Connectors
@tab $0.99
@item 4
@tab 1 meter Category 5E Cable
@tab $0.50
@end multitable
@sp 1
Notes:
@enumerate
@item
The RJ48 modular wall mount can be of the type used for telephone and does not
have to be the more expensive model used for networking.
@item
Note that 432 Ohm to 456 Ohm resistors should be used for minimum attenuation;
however, 470 Ohm resistors are far more common and are sufficient.
499 Ohm resistors would be too large.
@item
RJ45 modular connections should be of the type used for networking (not phone)
and should match the type of Category 5E cable (solid core or stranded).
@item
@end enumerate


@subsubsection Monitoring Jack Installation
@cindex monitoring jack installation

@node Monitoring Patch Cable
@subsection Monitoring Patch Cable
@cindex monitoring patch cable

Performing monitoring of T1/J1/E1 ports with the cards supported by the X400P
driver requires the use of a monitoring patch cable.  This is a 'Y' cable that
adapts between the RJ48 monitoring port and the ports on the X400P supported
card.  These cables can be purchased from a number of sources, but are rather
expensive considering their simplicity.  @ref{Monitoring Patch Cable
Construction} details how to construct a monitoring patch cable.

@subsubsection Monitoring Patch Cable Construction
@cindex monitoring patch cable construction

A monitoring patch cable can be constructed from the following parts:
@sp 1
@multitable @columnfractions .03 .67 .30
@item 1
@tab 3 x RJ45 Modular Connectors
@tab $0.75
@item 2
@tab 1/2 meter Cat-5E Cable
@tab $0.25
@end multitable
@sp 1
Notes:
@enumerate
@item
RJ45 modular connections should be of the type used for networking (not phone)
and should match the type of Cat5 cable (solid core or stranded).
@item
@end enumerate

@subsubsection Monitoring Patch Cable Installation
@cindex monitoring patch cable installation

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@bye

@c ============================================================================
