@c @setfilename uidlpi.info

@node UNIX International DLPI License
@section UNIX International DLPI License
@cindex license, UI DLPI
@cindex license, UNIX International Inc.

This license is from the Revision 2.0.0 Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)
specification published by UNIX International Inc, August 20, 1991:

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 1991  UNIX International, Inc. @*
All Rights Reserved.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name UNIX
International not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission.  UNIX International
makes no representations about the suitability of this documentation for any
purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

@noindent
@b{UNIX INTERNATIONAL DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT SHALL UNIX INTERNATIONAL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA
OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
DOCUMENTATION.}

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
This document is based on the UNIX System Laboratories Data Link Provider
Interface (DLPI) specification which was used with permission by the UNIX
International OSI Work Group (UI OSIWG).  Participation in the UI OSIWG is open
to UNIX International members and other interested parties.  For further
information contact UNIX International at the addresses above.

@noindent
UNIX International is making this documentation available as a reference point
for the industry.  While UNIX International believes that these interfaces are
well defined in this release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to
products conforming to the interfaces being made available from UNIX System
Laboratories or UNIX International members.

@subsubheading Trademarks:

@noindent
UNIX@registeredsymbol{} is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories in the United
States and other countries.

@noindent
X/Open(TM) is a trademark of the X/Open Company Ltd. in the UK and other
countries.

