@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2005/07/09 21:59:46 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/09 21:59:46 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel
modules directory @file{lib/modules/2.4.20-28.7/}:

@table @file
@item modules.strxns
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel
modules directory @file{lib/modules/2.4.20-28.7/strxns/}:

@table @file
@item streams-ip_strm_mod.o
This kernel module contains the IP to STREAMS module.
@item streams-ip_to_dlpi.o
This kernel module contains the IP to DLPI module.
@item streams-ldl.o
This kernle module contains the Linux DL module.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following header files in the system include
directory @file{usr/include/strxns/}:

@table @file
@item sys/cdi.h
This file contains the CDI header file.
@item sys/dlpi.h
This file contains the DLPI header file.
@item sys/ldl.h
This file contains the Linux DL header file.
@item sys/npi.h
This file contains the NPI header file.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following test programs in the system libexec
directory @file{usr/libexec/}:

@table @file
@item ldltest
This binary contins a test program for the Linux DL driver.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following utility programs in the system
binary directory @file{usr/sbin/}:

@table @file
@item ldlconfig
This binary contains a configuration utility for the Linux DL driver.
@item strxns_mknod
This binary conatins a script for making device nodes for the
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following info files in the system info
directory @file{usr/share/info/}:

@table @file
@item strxns.info
@itemx strxns.info-1
@itemx strxns.info-2
@itemx strxns.info-3
@itemx strxns.info-4
These files contain this manual in info format.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following manpage macro and reference
database files in the system man directory @file{usr/share/man/}:

@table @file
@item strxns.macros
This file contain manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages
included in the package.
@item strxns.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages
included in the package.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following CDI manual pages in the system man
directory @file{usr/share/man/man7/}:

@noindent
@file{CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ.7},
@file{CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ.7},
@file{CD_ATTACH_REQ.7},
@file{CD_BAD_FRAME_IND.7},
@file{CD_DETACH_REQ.7},
@file{CD_DISABLE_CON.7},
@file{CD_DISABLE_REQ.7},
@file{CD_ENABLE_CON.7},
@file{CD_ENABLE_REQ.7},
@file{CD_ERROR_ACK.7},
@file{CD_ERROR_IND.7},
@file{CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ.7},
@file{CD_INFO_ACK.7},
@file{CD_INFO_REQ.7},
@file{CD_MODEM_SIG_IND.7},
@file{CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL.7},
@file{CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ.7},
@file{CD_MUX_NAME_REQ.7},
@file{CD_OK_ACK.7},
@file{CD_READ_REQ.7},
@file{CD_UNITDATA_ACK.7},
@file{CD_UNITDATA_IND.7},
@file{CD_UNITDATA_REQ.7},
@file{CD_WRITE_READ_REQ.7},
@file{cd_abort_output_req_t.7},
@file{cd_allow_input_req_t.7},
@file{cd_attach_req_t.7},
@file{cd_bad_frame_ind_t.7},
@file{cd_detach_req_t.7},
@file{cd_disable_con_t.7},
@file{cd_disable_req_t.7},
@file{cd_enable_con_t.7},
@file{cd_enable_req_t.7},
@file{cd_error_ack_t.7},
@file{cd_error_ind_t.7},
@file{cd_halt_input_req_t.7},
@file{cd_info_ack_t.7},
@file{cd_modem_sig_ind_t.7},
@file{cd_modem_sig_poll_t.7},
@file{cd_modem_sig_req_t.7},
@file{cd_mux_name_req_t.7},
@file{cd_ok_ack_t.7},
@file{cd_read_req_t.7},
@file{cd_unitdata_ack_t.7},
@file{cd_unitdata_ind_t.7},
@file{cd_unitdata_req_t.7},
@file{cd_write_read_req_t.7},
@file{cdi.7}
@display
@noindent
These are CDI manual pages.
@end display

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following DLPI manual pages in the system man
directory @file{usr/share/man/man7/}:

@noindent
@file{DL_ATTACH_REQ.7},
@file{DL_BIND_ACK.7},
@file{DL_BIND_REQ.7},
@file{DL_CONNECT_CON.7},
@file{DL_CONNECT_IND.7},
@file{DL_CONNECT_REQ.7},
@file{DL_CONNECT_RES.7},
@file{DL_DATA_ACK_IND.7},
@file{DL_DATA_ACK_REQ.7},
@file{DL_DATA_ACK_STATUS_IND.7},
@file{DL_DATA_IND.7},
@file{DL_DATA_REQ.7},
@file{DL_DETACH_REQ.7},
@file{DL_DISABMULTI_REQ.7},
@file{DL_DISCONNECT_IND.7},
@file{DL_DISCONNECT_REQ.7},
@file{DL_ENABMULTI_REQ.7},
@file{DL_ERROR_ACK.7},
@file{DL_GET_STATISTICS_ACK.7},
@file{DL_GET_STATISTICS_REQ.7},
@file{DL_INFO_ACK.7},
@file{DL_INFO_REQ.7},
@file{DL_OK_ACK.7},
@file{DL_PHYS_ADDR_ACK.7},
@file{DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ.7},
@file{DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ.7},
@file{DL_PROMISCON_REQ.7},
@file{DL_REPLY_IND.7},
@file{DL_REPLY_REQ.7},
@file{DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND.7},
@file{DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ.7},
@file{DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND.7},
@file{DL_RESET_CON.7},
@file{DL_RESET_IND.7},
@file{DL_RESET_REQ.7},
@file{DL_RESET_RES.7},
@file{DL_SET_PHYS_ADDR_REQ.7},
@file{DL_SUBS_BIND_ACK.7},
@file{DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ.7},
@file{DL_SUBS_UNBIND_REQ.7},
@file{DL_TEST_CON.7},
@file{DL_TEST_IND.7},
@file{DL_TEST_REQ.7},
@file{DL_TEST_RES.7},
@file{DL_TOKEN_ACK.7},
@file{DL_TOKEN_REQ.7},
@file{DL_UDERROR_IND.7},
@file{DL_UDQOS_REQ.7},
@file{DL_UNBIND_REQ.7},
@file{DL_UNITDATA_IND.7},
@file{DL_UNITDATA_REQ.7},
@file{DL_XID_CON.7},
@file{DL_XID_IND.7},
@file{DL_XID_REQ.7},
@file{DL_XID_RES.7},
@file{dl_attach_req_t.7},
@file{dl_bind_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_bind_req_t.7},
@file{dl_connect_con_t.7},
@file{dl_connect_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_connect_req_t.7},
@file{dl_connect_res_t.7},
@file{dl_data_ack_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_data_ack_req_t.7},
@file{dl_data_ack_status_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_detach_req_t.7},
@file{dl_disabmulti_req_t.7},
@file{dl_disconnect_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_disconnect_req_t.7},
@file{dl_enabmulti_req_t.7},
@file{dl_error_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_get_statistics_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_get_statistics_req_t.7},
@file{dl_info_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_info_req_t.7},
@file{dl_ok_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_phys_addr_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_phys_addr_req_t.7},
@file{dl_promiscoff_req_t.7},
@file{dl_promiscon_req_t.7},
@file{dl_reply_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_reply_req_t.7},
@file{dl_reply_status_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_reply_update_req_t.7},
@file{dl_reply_update_status_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_reset_con_t.7},
@file{dl_reset_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_reset_req_t.7},
@file{dl_reset_res_t.7},
@file{dl_set_phys_addr_req_t.7},
@file{dl_subs_bind_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_subs_bind_req_t.7},
@file{dl_subs_unbind_req_t.7},
@file{dl_test_con_t.7},
@file{dl_test_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_test_req_t.7},
@file{dl_test_res_t.7},
@file{dl_token_ack_t.7},
@file{dl_token_req_t.7},
@file{dl_uderror_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_udqos_req_t.7},
@file{dl_unbind_req_t.7},
@file{dl_unitdata_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_unitdata_req_t.7},
@file{dl_xid_con_t.7},
@file{dl_xid_ind_t.7},
@file{dl_xid_req_t.7},
@file{dl_xid_res_t.7},
@file{dlpi.7},
@file{dlpi_eth.7}
@display
@noindent
These are DLPI manual pages.
@end display

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following NPI manual pages in the system man
directory @file{usr/share/man/man7/}:

@noindent
@file{N_BIND_ACK.7},
@file{N_BIND_REQ.7},
@file{N_CONN_CON.7},
@file{N_CONN_IND.7},
@file{N_CONN_REQ.7},
@file{N_CONN_RES.7},
@file{N_DATACK_IND.7},
@file{N_DATACK_REQ.7},
@file{N_DATA_IND.7},
@file{N_DATA_REQ.7},
@file{N_DISCON_IND.7},
@file{N_DISCON_REQ.7},
@file{N_ERROR_ACK.7},
@file{N_EXDATA_IND.7},
@file{N_EXDATA_REQ.7},
@file{N_INFO_ACK.7},
@file{N_INFO_REQ.7},
@file{N_OK_ACK.7},
@file{N_OPTMGMT_REQ.7},
@file{N_RESET_CON.7},
@file{N_RESET_IND.7},
@file{N_RESET_REQ.7},
@file{N_RESET_RES.7},
@file{N_TOKEN_ACK.7},
@file{N_TOKEN_REQ.7},
@file{N_UDERROR_IND.7},
@file{N_UNBIND_REQ.7},
@file{N_UNITDATA_IND.7},
@file{N_UNITDATA_REQ.7}
@file{N_bind_ack_t.7},
@file{N_bind_req_t.7},
@file{N_conn_con_t.7},
@file{N_conn_ind_t.7},
@file{N_conn_req_t.7},
@file{N_conn_res_t.7},
@file{N_data_ind_t.7},
@file{N_data_req_t.7},
@file{N_datack_ind_t.7},
@file{N_datack_req_t.7},
@file{N_discon_ind_t.7},
@file{N_discon_req_t.7},
@file{N_error_ack_t.7},
@file{N_exdata_ind_t.7},
@file{N_exdata_req_t.7},
@file{N_info_ack_t.7},
@file{N_info_req_t.7},
@file{N_ok_ack_t.7},
@file{N_optmgmt_req_t.7},
@file{N_reset_con_t.7},
@file{N_reset_ind_t.7},
@file{N_reset_req_t.7},
@file{N_reset_res_t.7},
@file{N_token_ack_t.7},
@file{N_token_req_t.7},
@file{N_uderror_ind_t.7},
@file{N_unbind_req_t.7},
@file{N_unitdata_ind_t.7},
@file{N_unitdata_req_t.7},
@file{npi.7}
@display
@noindent
These are NPI manual pages.
@end display

@end ignore
