% -*- texinfo -*-
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: voip.texi,v 0.9.2.18 2008-04-29 07:10:36 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:36 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% $Log: voip.texi,v $
% Revision 0.9.2.18  2008-04-29 07:10:36  brian
% - updating headers for release
%
% Revision 0.9.2.17  2008-04-25 11:50:47  brian
% - updates to AGPLv3
%
% Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-11 16:58:29  brian
% - removed deprecated NEXUSWARE support
%
% Revision 0.9.2.15  2007/08/14 12:16:56  brian
% - GPLv3 header updates
%
% Revision 0.9.2.14  2007/06/26 18:15:55  brian
% - added new documentation
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c %**start of header
@setfilename voip.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design and Project Plan
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* VoIP Switch: (voip).			OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design and Project Plan

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights..  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design and Project Plan

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008  OpenSS7 Corporation
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@subsubheading Published by:
@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@b{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights..  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@sp 1

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed.  @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Executive Overview::
* Executive Summary::
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Application Architecture::
* Network Architecture::
* Reference Architecture::
* Protocol Architecture::
* Software Architecture::
* Hardware Architecture::
* Platform Architecture::
* System Architecture::
* Logistics::
* Optional Application Support::
* Optional Network Support::
* Optional Protocol Support::
* Optional Software Support::
* Optional Hardware Support::
* Programmatic Interfaces::
* Platform Sizing::
* Index::
@end menu

@node Executive Overview
@unnumbered Executive Overview

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The initial and primary
purposes of this equipment is to provide a scalable, carrier-grade platform for interconnecting VoIP
backbone networks to the PSTN using SS7.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 Project

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} is an open source software project that has
developed many protocol components within the SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN and VoIP protocol stacks.
Intellectual property rights for the OpenSS7 Project are held by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,
OpenSS7 Corporation}.  All OpenSS7 Project software is eventually licensed under the GNU Affero General Public
License.  OpenSS7 Corporation also provide commercial licensing of OpenSS7 Project
software under terms less restrictive than the AGPL.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch

OpenSS7 can provide VoIP gateway capabilities in a high-performance, low-cost, small-footprint
platform leaveraging the GNU/Linux operating system distributions and tools, and utilizing low-cost
commodity, or high-quality standardized hardware.

For details on platform applications, see @ref{Application Architecture}, @ref{Network
Architecture}, @ref{Optional Application Support}, and @ref{Optional Network Support}.

@subsubheading Open Source Software

The OpenSS7 Project leverages the widespread use of GNU/Linux operation systems, distributions, and
FSF tools such as @samp{autoconf} and @dfn{RPM}.  For example, this document was formatted for PDF,
HTML, info and plain text using the GNU @dfn{texinfo} system, @samp{autoconf}, and the @TeX{}
formatting system.

The open source model avoids proprietary lock-in and permits in-house or outsourced development.
All source code is available for use and modification by the end customer.  All build tools,
documentation and associated resources are generally available.  The availability of the source code
and complete documentation eases problem resolution and can offer upgrades and fixes even in advance
of client problem reports.  

For details on software solutions, see @ref{Protocol Architecture}, @ref{Software Architecture},
@ref{Optional Protocol Support}, and @ref{Optional Software Support}.

@subsubheading Commodity Hardware

By best utilizing commodity PC or standardized CompactPCI hardware, OpenSS7 makes available the
highest performance platforms available on the market at back-to-school prices.  When carrier-grade
and large scale is not essential, 3GHz Pentium class servers in hardened rack mount chassis can be
used at a fraction of the cost, and yet outperform, other solutions.  Where carrier-grade is
necessary, embedded Linux on standardized PICMG 2.16 NEBS compliant chassis make for a higher cost,
but more reliable alternative.

For details on hardware solutions, see @ref{Platform Architecture}, @ref{Hardware Architecture}, and
@ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Rapid Development

The OpenSS7 Project has already developed protocol components completing the SS7 and SIGTRAN
signalling stacks including MTP Level 2 and Level 3, ISUP, SCCP, TCAP; and SCTP, M2PA, M2UA, M3UA,
SUA and TUA.  Development of a VoIP Switch to meet initial field requirements needs only the
development of some intermediate and auxillary modules.

For details on scheduling, see @ref{Logistics}.

@subsubheading An Evolving Solution

The OpenSS7 Project is evolving to support more protocol stacks including ISDN and VoIP.  Support
for an ever expanding capability is demonstrated by the additional options available as described in
@ref{Optional Application Support}, @ref{Optional Network Support}, @ref{Optional Protocol Support},
@ref{Optional Software Support}, and @ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Conclusions

In summary, an OpenSS7 VoIP Switch an excellent application of the OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stacks and
can be provided at a affordable price on short time-lines, while offering an evolution path for
future deployment applications.

@sp 4

@flushright
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
The OpenSS7 Project
@end flushright

@node Executive Summary
@unnumbered Executive Summary

The overarching objective of this project is replacing Excel's existing Veraz Softswitches with an
opensource replacement on rapid timelines in Excel's existing network.  This is a high-risk
development project with many development challenges that must be closely managed to be successful.
The project is suitable for a time-boxing approach.

Under time-boxing, development gaps and deliverables are placed on a matrix with two axes which
reflect increasing client need and increasing development effort.  Then the deliverables which are
most needed by the client and which require the least effort are attempted first, followed by lower
needs and more effort, at last completed with the least need and the most effort.

While intended to be an iterative and refined process, the current time-boxing is as follows:

@enumerate

@item
Demonstrate M3UA interoperability with the Tekelec Eagle in a redundant configuration.

@item
Demonstrate interoperability with Excel's LNP LSCP (via the Tekelec Eagles using M3UA) by dipping the
database for various numbers.

@item
Demonstrate interoperability with the Veraz, Cisco and Sonus Media Gateways@footnote{Not necessarily
in that order and not necessarily together.} by performing basic circuit connections, tone
generation and detection using MEGACO/H.248 binary format over UDP per MSF per
MSF-IA-MEGACO.003.01-FINAL.

@item
Demonstrate ISUP interoperability with the DMS-250 by performing Q.784/Telcordia interoperability
testing.  Perform call connections between DSM-250's utilizing a media gateway.

@item
Demonstrate ISUP to SIP and SIP to ISUP call handling via a Media Gateway.

@item
Demonstrate Application Server interaction (call-by-call control) and successful routing operation
and billing generation.

@item
Demonstrate high-capacity call handling and redundant fail-over.

@end enumerate

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Document Information
@cindex Document information

@subsection Abstract
@cindex Document abstract

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex Document objective

The objective of this document is to provide a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the development of a low
cost, high-performance, VoIP Switch using OpenSS7 SS7 stack components, software, and compatible
systems and hardware.

@subsection Intent
@cindex Document intent

The intent of this document is to act as a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for a project for an
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  As a @value{MANUAL_TYPE}, this document discusses components and systems
which are not necessarily complete.  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no
obligation to provide any software, system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex Document audience

This document is intended for a technical audience.  The reader should be familiar with most
ETSI, ITU-T and ANSI, Signalling System No. 7 recommendations, H.323, H.225, H.245, as well as IETF
drafts and RFCS for RTP, SIP, SIP-T, MEGACO, MGCP, and SIGTRAN protocols.

@subsection Revisions
@cindex Document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

@ignore
@subsubsection Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: voip.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.18  2008-04-29 07:10:36  brian
- updating headers for release

Revision 0.9.2.17  2008-04-25 11:50:47  brian
- updates to AGPLv3

Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-11 16:58:29  brian
- removed deprecated NEXUSWARE support

Revision 0.9.2.15  2007/08/14 12:16:56  brian
- GPLv3 header updates

Revision 0.9.2.14  2007/06/26 18:15:55  brian
- added new documentation

Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/08/26 09:17:01  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/08/23 11:02:48  brian
- corrections

Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/08/22 12:44:10  brian
- documentation updates

Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/01/03 12:00:33  brian
- documentation updates

Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/01/02 11:51:31  brian
- new CCI texinfo file

Revision 0.9.2.8  2005/11/20 22:26:14  brian
- header correction

Revision 0.9.2.7  2005/05/14 08:33:46  brian
- copyright header correction

Revision 0.9.2.6  2005/03/15 13:40:45  brian
- minor corrections

Revision 0.9.2.5  2005/03/15 00:56:52  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/03/15 00:51:49  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/02/17 20:00:13  brian
- Fixes for texi documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/01/24 11:57:53  brian
- Updated texinfo headers.

Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/11/05 00:41:06  brian
- Added HLR and VoIP HLDs and Applications Notes.


@end smallexample
@end ignore

@subsubsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed or
postscript) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer
@cindex Document disclaimer

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights..  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@section Document Organization
@cindex Document organization

This document is organized as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
* Introduction::
* Application Architecture::
* Network Architecture::
* Reference Architecture::
* System Architecture::
* Platform Architecture::
* Protocol Architecture::
* Software Architecture::
* Hardware Architecture::
* Logistics::
* Optional Application Support::
* Optional Network Support::
* Optional Protocol Support::
* Optional Software Support::
* Optional Hardware Support::
* Programmatic Interfaces::
* Platform Sizing::
* Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@iftex
@table @emph
@item @ref{Introduction}
Introduction to the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} application.
@item @ref{Application Architecture}
The application requirements and architecture.
@item @ref{Network Architecture}
The network architecture for the application.
@item @ref{Reference Architecture}
The reference architecture for the application.
@item @ref{System Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} system.
@item @ref{Platform Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform.
@item @ref{Protocol Architecture}
The protocol architecture supporting the application.
@item @ref{Software Architecture}
The software architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Hardware Architecture}
The hardware architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Logistics}
Project logistics for completion of the VoIP Switch application.
@item @ref{Optional Application Support}
Additional application support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Network Support}
Additional network interface support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Protocol Support}
Additional protocol component support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Software Support}
Additional software support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Hardware Support}
Additional hardware support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Programmatic Interfaces}
Programmatic interfaces to selected protocol components.
@item @ref{Platform Sizing}
Detailed platform sizing considerations.
@item @ref{Index}
Index of concepts.
@end table
@end iftex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for a platform to provide scalable @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
capabilities.  The primary driver for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} is to provide a system capable of
interconnecting a VoIP backbone to the PSTN using SS7.  This document provide a high-level design
and proposal for a production system to provide this capability at a number of scale points.

The proposal utilizes, where possible, existing OpenSS7 SS7, SIGTRAN and VoIP stack components and
provides a development plan for components that are specific to the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch initial
requirements.

This document discusses the resulting software configuration that will be put in place on the
production system, the platform configuration for the production system, and a network configuration
for deployment.  Also discussed is an overview of the project management logistics for successful
completion over the course of this development project.

It is intended that the document be a ``living'' document, that is updated over the course of this
development project.

@menu
* The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch::
* Project Drivers::
* Scope::
@end menu

@node The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@section The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
@cindex The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch

This project provides an @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform that provides interconnection to the PSTN
using SS7 ISUP trunks and is capable of routing calls to and from the PSTN and a VoIP backbone
network using SIP, SIP-T, H.323 or BICC signalling and controlling Media Gateways utilizing RTP
transport using MEGACO/H.248.

@node Project Drivers
@section Project Drivers
@cindex Project drivers

The lead purpose of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} is to provide PTSN interconnection to an existing VoIP
backbone and deployment infrastructure using a fully opensource solution.

@node Scope
@section Scope
@cindex Scope

Because of early deployment drivers, requirements for scale, yet a focus on opensource software, the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform is constructed using standardized COTS (Commodity Off The Shelf)
hardware in a NEBS 3/ETSI compatible chassis providing cost effective servicability and reliability.
Carrier-grade serviciability and reliability utilizing standardized PICMG 2.16 or AdvancedTCA
telephony hardware in a a NEBS 3/ETSI compliant chassis for more hardenned installations remains
possible.

@menu
* Objectives and Milestones::
* Phases and Timeboxing::
* Gates::
@end menu

@node Objectives and Milestones
@subsection Objectives and Milestones
@cindex Project objectives and milestones

The project lays out the following objectives, in no particular order:

@enumerate

@item
Establish interoperability with the Veraz Media Gateway.
It is intended that the Veraz Media Gateway be controlled using MEGACO/H.248 Version 2 binary format
over UDP or SCTP per MSF-IA-MEGACO.003.01-FINAL.
Successful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully connecting basic calls at the local
and access tandem level on SS7 IMTs.

@item
Establish interoperability with the Cisco Gateway.
It is intended that the Cisco Media Gateway be controlled using MEGACO/H.248 Version 2 binary format
over UDP or SCTP per MSF-IA-MEGACO.003.01-FINAL.
Successful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully connecting basic calls at the local
and access tandem level on SS7 IMTs.

@item
Establish interoperability with the Sonus Media Gateway.
It is intended that the Sonus Media Gateway be controlled using MEGACO/H.248 Version 2 binary format
over UDP or SCTP per MSF-IA-MEGACO.003.01-FINAL.
Successful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully connecting basic calls at the local
and access tandem level on SS7 IMTs.

@item
Establish interoperability with the Tekelec Eagle M3UA implementation.
It is intended that the Tekelec Eagle be interconnected using RFC 3332, RFC 4666 or ETSI TS 102 142
M3UA using RFC 2960, RFC 4460 or ETSI TS 102 141 SCTP.
Successful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully exchanging ISUP and LNP/TCAP
signalling via the STP.

@item
Establish interoperability with a DMS-250.
It is intended that the DMS-250 be interconnected using ANSI ISUP.
Sucessful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully connecting basic calls at the local
and access tandem level on SS7 IMTs.

@item
Establish interoperability with an (unidentified vendor) LNP LSCP.
It is intended that the LSCTP be interconnected using ANSI TCAP.
Successful interoperablity will be demonstrated by successfully dipping the LNP database.

@item
Establish interoperatbiliy with an Application Server peforming call-by-call control, the design and
implementation to be provided by Excel.
It is currently intended that SPIRITS or INAP or AIN be used by the Application Server (SCP) to
control the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch running an AIN/INAP call model.
Successful interoperability will be demonstrated by successfully connecting basic calls at the local
and access tandem level on SS7 IMTs, including:
@itemize
@item
Connect ISUP to ISUP calls across Excel's network.
@item
Connect ISUP to SIP calls across Excel's network.
@item
Connect SIP to ISUP calls across Excel's network.
@item
Connect SIP to SIP calls across Excel's network.
@end itemize

@item
Demonstrate high levels of call handling capability (over 250 calls per second) in the laboratory.

@item
Demonstrate high levels of call handling capability under failover scenarios in the laboratory.

@end enumerate

@node Phases and Timeboxing
@subsection Phases and Timeboxing
@cindex Project phases and timeboxing

The longer term project is broken into the following phases:

@table @dfn
@item Phase 1 @footnote{Although some reference is made to capabilities supporting other phases, @dfn{Phase 1} and @dfn{Phase 2} are the focus of this document.}
The initial phase of the project is intended to provide the capabilities of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
for PSTN to VoIP backbone tandem for H.323.
@item Phase 2
The second phase of the project adds tandem gateway capabilities for SIP-T.
@item Phase 3
The third phase of the project adds network service capabilities.
@item Phase 4
The fourth phase of the project adds softswitch capabilities.
@item Phase 5
The fifth phase of the project completes a VoIP (NGN) switch.
@end table

Although some reference is made to capabilities supporting other phases, @dfn{Phase 1} and
@dfn{Phase 2} are the focus of this document.

@node Gates
@subsection Gates
@cindex Project gates

Each phase of the project consists of seven gates.  The seven gates are defined as follows:

@table @dfn

@item Gate 0 --- Concept

@noindent
@dfn{Gate 0} is passed when the initial concept has been elucidated and work is begun on a
High-Level Design.  This is an internal OpenSS7 gate.

@item Gate 1 --- High-Level Design

@dfn{Gate 1} is passed when the high-level design has been reviewed to the satisfaction of the
consumers of the project.  This is an external review gate.  OpenSS7 internally passes this gate
once the High-Level Design has been published and work is begun on a detailed design.
@footnote{This document is a High-Level Design an Proposal document and it meets the internal
requirements for passing Gate 1 of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the VoIP Switch project.  An external review of
this document by a Beta or Gamma client or sponsor is pending.}

@item Gate 2 --- Detailed Design

@dfn{Gate 2} is passed when the detailed design has been reviewed to the satisfaction of the
consumers of the project and the developers on the project.  This is an external as well as an
internal review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate once the Detailed Design has been published and work
base begin on development and implementation of the design.
@footnote{OpenSS7 requires a contractual commitment for purchase from a Beta or Gamma client, or
funding from a Sponsor of the OpenSS7 Project, before this gate can be passed and development
started.}
Passing this gate moves from the design stage to the development stage of the project.

@item Gate 3 --- Development and Implementation

@dfn{Gate 3} is passed when the software and systems development and implementation to the detailed
design is complete and testing has begun.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7 internally
passes this gate when software is code complete and hardware has been installed for testing.

@item Gate 4 --- System Test

@dfn{Gate 4} is passed once the product implementation meets all internal ad hoc and formal
conformance test suites and internal testing is complete.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7
passes this gate internally once conformance testing is complete.  Passing this gate moves from the
development stage to the support stage of the project.

@item Gate 5 --- Acceptance Test

@dfn{Gate 5} is passed once the product implementation has passed external Gamma client acceptance
testing.  This is an external review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate internally once participation
in external acceptance testing is complete.

@item Gate 6 --- Project Complete

@dfn{Gate 6} is passed once all support obligations for the product implementation have been
discharged.  This is an internal review gate.  OpenSS7 passes this gate once support agreements have
terminated.

@end table

For more details on Gate scheduling for Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the VoIP Switch project, @pxref{Schedule}.

@node Application Architecture
@chapter Application Architecture
@cindex Application architecture

The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch is intended to provide high performance and high density PSTN to VoIP
backbone gateway adding SS7 interconnection capability to an existing or back-end VoIP network.

@section Application Requirements

Application requirements have been broken into 5 phases using the timeboxing approach.

@subsection Phase 1 Requirements

Phase 1 requirements provide a VoIP gateway capability that will connect an existing H.323 VoIP
network to the PSTN using SS7 ISUP trunks.

@itemize ---
@item Integral Media Gateway for RTP/RTCP to G.703/G.704 G.711 A- and mu-law.
@item Integral Signalling Gateway for SS7 ISUP and SS7 TCAP.
@item Local Number Portability.
@item Lawful Intercept.
@end itemize

@itemize ---
@item Integral Media Gateway Controller for H.323
@item Integral Back End functions for H.323.
@item Integral H.323 Gatekeeper.
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 2 Requirements

Phase 2 requirements provide SIP-T capabilities.

@itemize ---
@item Integral Media Gateway Controller for SIP-T.
@item Integral Back End functions for SIP-T.
@item Integral SIP redirect/proxy server.
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 3 Requirements

Phase 3 requirements provide network service capabilities.

@itemize ---
@item ENUM support.
@item AAA support.
@item EAP authentication.
@item External PLMN authentication.
@item GSM MSC/VLR capabilities.
@item ETSI Tiphon 4 interworking.
@item ISDN support on E interface.
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 4 Requirements

Phase 4 requirements expose internal interfaces to provide softswitch capabilities.

@itemize ---
@item J Interface (SIGTRAN) exposed.
@item N Interface (MGCP, H.248/MEGACO) exposed.
@end itemize

@subsection Phase 5 Requirements

Phase 5 requirements complete full VoIP (NGN) switching.

@itemize ---
@item Support for directly attached H.323, SIP and MGCP IP Phone terminals.
@item Full RAS support for internal H.323 gatekeeper and SIP proxy server.
@item Full class 5 residential/business feature set.
@end itemize

@section Solution Architecture

Although the functions of @dfn{Media Gateway Controller}, @dfn{Media Gateway} and @dfn{Signalling
Gateway} have been decomposed, and in the past these functional groups have been implemented on
separate physical platforms, modern compute capacity and densities permit these functions to be
integrated into a single phyical platform without limitation.  Open standard interfaces are utilized
internal to the platform to permit a decomposed model to be split out and to permit ETSI Tiphon
Version 4 compatibility.

@subsection OpenSS7 VoIP Switch for Deployment

In light of the foregoing, the solution architecture takes the form of an integrated VoIP switch
capability of providing a number of functional groups in the traditional models.  The OpenSS7 VoIP
Switch integrates the following functional groups while still permitting standard interfaces to be
exposed for maximum deployment flexibility:

@itemize ---
@item Integral @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} for H.323 and SIP-T.
@item Integral @dfn{Media Gateway} for RTP/RTCP to PDH G.703/704 G.711 conversion.
@item Integral @dfn{Signalling Gateway} for SS7 ISUP, TCAP and ISDN signalling conversion.
@item Integral @dfn{Gatekeeper} for H.323 and @dfn{redirect/proxy} server for SIP-T.
@end itemize

@section Call Flows

This section provides some illustrative application call flows:@footnote{This section is not
intended as a @dfn{Detailed Design}, but provides illustration only for these @dfn{Application Notes}.
Refer to RFC XXXX for detailed information.}

@node Network Architecture
@chapter Network Architecture
@cindex Network architecture

@figref{1}
illustrates the network configuration for the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch in a deployment scenario.  The
gateway device is positioned and attached to the SS7 network (PSTN) and the IP network (VoIP).

@figure{voip_netconf,1,Network Architecture}

The VoIP Switch device is positioned between the SS7 network and the IP network providing VoIP
communications.

The device is attached to the telephone network with two-way SS7 Inter Machine Trunks (IMTs) and SS7
signalling links.  SS7 signalling links may be either A-links to STPs in the SS7 network, or F-links
directly to interconnect SS7 switching offices within the telephone network.  SSPs within the
telephone network to which the devices is interconnected would have to be configured to deliver
calls for the device to SS7 ISUP trunks interconnected to the device.  For the purposes of the
telephone network, the VoIP Switch would appear as a National intermediate office, but could also
act as an International intermediate office or International incoming or outgoing office.
Configuration as a National originating or terminating office is also possible.  Full continuity
testing, blocking and management of ISUP circuits is provided for by the OpenSS7 ISUP protocol
module.

The device is attached to the SS7 utilizing CPC-388 or lesser grade OpenSS7 SS7 link and media
channel TDM interface cards,
@footnote{For other hardware alternatives, @pxref{Hardware Architecture}}
terminating SS7 A-links or F-links, either 64kbps Q.703 links or full span
@cindex Q.703 Annex B
Q.703 Annex B 2.048Mbps high-speed links, or via a signalling gateway device terminating SS7 Level
2, 3 or 4 and transporting M2UA or M3UA back-haul signalling to the gateway device over
@cindex SCTP
SCTP.
@cindex M2UA
@cindex M3UA

The device is configured to perform routing of calls incoming from the telephone network based on
ENUM lookups and INAP/SPIRITS triggers to RTP streams controlled by SIP or H.323 within the OpenSS7
complex.
@footnote{Q.699 compliant (ISUP-H.245 interworking) conversion will be performed for H.323.  SIP-T
compliant ISUP-SIP conversion (RFC 3398) will be performed for SIP.}
The device is also responsible for switching and converting 64kbps digital paths from the IMTs
terminated on the telephone network side to RTP media streams (using any encoding) on the OpenSS7
complex side.  Full interworking of echo suppression/silence detection/comfort tone between ISUP and
RTP will be performed.  This switching is performed using the OpenSS7 internal Media Switch (MG)
switching which provides for non-blocking switching of voice channels across TE410, CPC 384 or
CPC 388 devices in the platform, as well as switching and conversion between RTP streams on dual
Ethernet rails.
@cindex TE410
@cindex CPC 384
@cindex CPC 388

On the OpenSS7 complex side of the device, calls are connected to RTP streams on attached Ethernet
and routed using the Client IP network.  The VoIP Switch will act as a SIP proxy and H.323
Gatekeeper querying on-board or off-board ENUM DNS servers, and performing SIP/H.323 signalling to
clients or other proxy/gatekeepers across the IP network.  It could also be capable of INAP SSP/IP
operation as well as a SPIRITS.

Calls outgoing from the OpenSS7 complex to the telephone network will be directed on the basis of
subscription or by proxy/gatekeeper origination to the interconnected IMT trunks with or without
number analysis.

Existing equipment may also be attached with ISDN PRI connections directly to the VoIP switch with
the device acting in Network mode.  This permits local PBX to be attached using ISDN.  The VoIP
switch would also be capable of BICC switching between VoIP switches as well as M2UA/M3UA
distribution of signalling links and signalling points to permit a distributed and fully redundant
IP architecture.

The telephone network side of the device signals using an ETSI ISUP Version 2 compliant National
variant to the local interconnect controlling E1 facilities.  The OpenSS7 side of the device signals
using SIP-T or H.323 directly to SIP proxies or H.323 GK and terminal devices within the IP network.
The device is also responsible for switching E1 voice channels into RTP streams.

The purpose of the VoIP Switch device is to provide SS7 ISUP access directly into the OpenSS7 VoIP
environment, without the need for additional expensive or proprietary equipment.

On the VoIP network side of the device, the platform is connected on an internal LAN with multiple
Ethernet segments and IP subnetworks through a Layer 2 switch to VoIP backbone routers.  SIP calls
originating within the VoIP network are accepted and responded to by the VoIP Switch application.
Outgoing calls are tandemed to the PSTN over SS7 ISUP signalling and circuits.  RTP channels are
terminated on the gateway device and converted to 64kbps A-law ISUP TDM circuits.

From the viewpoint of the SS7 network, the gateway device acts as an SS7 SSP intermediate or
originating/terminating switch with its own SS7 signalling point code.  From the viewpoint of the
VoIP network, the gateway device acts as SIP or H.323 gateway, or a BICC intermediate switch.

@node Reference Architecture
@chapter Reference Architecture
@cindex Reference architecture

@figref{2}
illustrates the VoIP Switch reference interfaces form the ETSI Tiphon model.

@figure{tiphon,2,VoIP Switch Reference Architecture}

@node VoIP Switch Reference Entities
@section VoIP Switch Reference Entities
@cindex VoIP gateway reference entities

The following functional entities are used to decompose functions in the VoIP switch and network:

@menu
* Terminal::
* Gatekeeper::
* Media Gateway Controller::
* Media Gateway::
* Signalling Gateway::
* Back End::
@end menu

@node Terminal
@subsection Terminal

The H.323 or SIP terminal support the A or B interface.  The A interface is used for communicating
with H.323 Gatekeepers or other H.323 Terminals, or SIP FS, PS or UAC.

Terminal devices are extenal to the VoIP Switch.  In initial phases, terminal device interface
(see @pxref{Reference Interface A}) will only be supported via external H.323 Gatekeepers, SIP
forwarding servers or SIP proxy servers.  Terminal device attachment for H.323, SIP and H.248
terminals will be supported in later phases.

@subsubsection H.323 Terminal

@subsubsection SIP Terminal

@subsubsection H.248/MEGACO Terminal

@node Gatekeeper
@subsection Gatekeeper

The H.323 Gatekeeper, SIP forwarding server, or SIP proxy server, supports the A, C, D and G
interfaces.

The VoIP Switch will support an internal Gatekeeper function that will initially support the D
interface, and support the A interface in later phases.  Initially the G and F interfaces will be
internal to the platform, and will be exposed in later phases.

@node Media Gateway Controller
@subsection Media Gateway Controller

The H.323 or SIP Media Gateway Controller supports the C, F, J and N interfaces.

The VoIP Switch will incorporate an integral Media Gateway Controller function.  In initial phases,
the C, F, J and N interfaces will be internal to the platform.  In subsequent phases, these
interfaces will be exposed.

@subsubsection H.323 MGC

@subsubsection SIP MGC

The SIP @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} is primarily responsible for conversion of SCN signalling
from the PSTN on the @dfn{J Interface} to VoIP signalling to the H.323 Gatekeeper or SIP
redirect/proxy server on the @dfn{C Interface}.  Also, the SIP MGC must coordinate this conversion
with the control of media conversion from G.703/704 G.711 A- and mu-law circuits from the PSTN to
RTP/RTCP channels within the VoIP network.

Conversion between SS7 ISUP signalling and SIP-T signalling is described in

@node Media Gateway
@subsection Media Gateway

The Media Gateway supports the N and B interfaces.

The VoIP Switch will incorporate an integral Media Gateway function.  In initial phases, the N
interface will be internal to the platform.  In subsequent phases, the N interface will be exposed.

The current document is concerned with media gateway functionality for media gateways supporting SS7
ISUP trunks (G.703/704) and ISDN PRI trunks (G.703/704).

@node Signalling Gateway
@subsection Signalling Gateway

The Signalling Gateway supports the J and E.b interfaces.

The VoIP Switch will incorporate an integral Signalling Gateway function.  In initial phases, the J
interface will be internal to the platform.  In subsequent phases, the J interface will be exposed.

The current document is concerned with signalling gateway functionality for SS7 ISUP, SS7 TCAP, and
ISDN Q.931/921 signalling.

@node Back End
@subsection Back End

The back end supports the F and G interfaces.

The VoIP switch will incorporate an integral Back End function.  In initial phases, the F and G
interfaces will be internal to the platform.  In subsequent phases, the F and G interfaces will be
exposed.

The current document is concerned about operational support systems, bulling systems, and service
menagement systems.  I addition, database services (AIN/SPIRITS/etc) are considerered at this
interface.

@node VoIP Switch Reference Interfaces
@section VoIP Switch Reference Interfaces
@cindex VoIP gateway reference interfaces

@menu
* Reference Interface A::
* Reference Interface B::
* Reference Interface C::
* Reference Interface D::
* Reference Interface E::
* Reference Interface F::
* Reference Interface G::
* Reference Interface J::
* Reference Interface N::
@end menu

@node Reference Interface A
@subsection Reference Interface A

This is the interface of the H.323 Terminal or SIP Terminal to the H.323 Gate Keeper or SIP Proxy.

@figref{3}
illustrates the protocols at the @dfn{A Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifa,3,A Interface}

@subsubsection Interface A --- H.323

@figref{3a}
illustrates the use of H.323 based protocols at the @dfn{A Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifa_h323,3a,A Interface --- H.323}

Protocols at this interface for H.323 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item H.323
@item H.225.0
@item Q.931
@item H.245
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface A --- SIP

@figref{3b}
illustrates the use of SIP based protocols at the @dfn{A Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifa_sipt,3b,A Interface --- SIPT}

Protocols at this interface for SIP operation include:

@itemize ---
@item SIP (UAC--UAS)
@item SDP
@item HTTP/1.1
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

In initial phases of the VoIP Switch project, the A interface will not be directly supported.  The A
Interface will be suppored in later phases of the project.

@node Reference Interface B
@subsection Reference Interface B

This is the interface of the Terminal to the Media Gateway.

@c @figure{voip_ifb,4,B Interface}

Protocols at this interface include:

@itemize ---
@item RTP/RTCP
@item UDP
@item IP
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface C
@subsection Reference Interface C

This is the interface of the Media Gateway Controller to the H.323 Gate Keeper or SIP Proxy.

@figref{5}
illustrates the protocols at the @dfn{C Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifc,5,C Interface}

In initial phases of the VoIP Switch project, the C interface will be internal to the platform.  The
C Interface will be exposed in later phases of the project.

@subsubsection Interface C --- H.323

@figref{5a}
illustrates the protocols supporting H.323 at the @dfn{C Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifc_h323,5a,C Interface --- H.323}

Protocols at this interface for H.323 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item H.323
@item H.225.0
@item Q.931
@item H.245
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface C --- SIP

@figref{5b}
illustrates the protocols supporting SIP-T at the @dfn{C Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifc_sipt,5b,C Interface --- SIP}

Protocols at this interface for SIP operation include:

@itemize ---
@item SIP (SIP-T)
@item SDP (ISUP)
@item HTTP/1.1
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface C --- BICC

@c @figure{voip_ifc_bicc,5c,C Interface --- BICC}

Protocols at this interface for BICC operation include:

@itemize ---
@item BICC
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface D
@subsection Reference Interface D

This is the interface of the H.323 Gate Keeper or SIP Proxy to the H.323 Gate Keeper or SIP Proxy.

@figref{6}
illustrates the protocols at the @dfn{D Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifd,6,D Interface}

@subsubsection Interface D --- H.323

@figref{6a}
illustrates the protocols supporting H.323 at the @dfn{D Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifd_h323,6a,D Interface --- H.323}

Protocols at this interface for H.323 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item H.323
@item H.225.0
@item H.245
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface D --- SIP

@figref{6b}
illustrates the protocols supporting SIPT at the @dfn{D Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifd_sipt,6b,D Interface --- SIPT}

Protocols at this interface for SIP operation include:

@itemize ---
@item SIP (SIP-T)
@item SDP
@item HTTP/1.1
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface D --- BICC

@c @figure{voip_ifd_bicc,6c,D Interface --- BICC}

Protocols at this interface for BICC operation include:

@itemize ---
@item BICC
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface E
@subsection Reference Interface E

This is the interface of the Gateway to the Switched Circuit Network.  It consists of two
interfaces: a signalling interfaces (E.b) and a circuit interface (E.a).

@menu
* Reference Interface E.a::
* Reference Interface E.b::
@end menu

@node Reference Interface E.a
@subsubsection Reference Interface E.a

This is the circuit interface from the gateway to the switched circuit network.

@c @figure{voip_ifea,7,E.a Interface}

@subsubheading Interface E.a --- ATM

@c @figure{voip_ifea_atm,7a,E.a Interface --- ATM}

Protocols at this interface for ATM operation include:

@itemize ---
@item ATM AAL2
@item ATM AAL3
@end itemize

@subsubheading Interface E.a --- PDH

@c @figure{voip_ifea_pdh,7a,E.a Interface --- PDH}

Protocols at this interface for PDH operation include:

@itemize ---
@item G.703
@item G.704
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface E.b
@subsubsection Reference Interface E.b

This is the signalling interface from the gateway to the switched circuit network.

@figure{voip_ifeb,8,E.b Interface}

@subsubheading Interface E.b --- SS7

@figref{8a}
illustrates protocols in support of SS7 signalling at the @dfn{E.b Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifeb_ss7,8a,E.b Interface --- SS7}

Protocols at this interface for SS7 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item TCAP
@item SCCP
@item ISUP
@item SS7-MTP
@end itemize

@subsubheading Interface E.b --- ISDN

@c @figref{8b}
illustrates protocols in support of ISDN signalling at the @dfn{E.b Interface}.

@c @figure{voip_ifeb_isdn,8b,E.b Interface --- ISDN}

Protocols at this interface for ISDN operation include:

@itemize ---
@item ISDN Q.931
@item ISDN Q.921
@end itemize

@subsubheading Interface E.b --- ATM

@figref{8c}
illustrates protocols in support of ATM signalling at the @dfn{E.b Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifeb_atm,8c,E.b Interface --- ATM}

Protocols at this interface for ATM operation include:

@itemize ---
@item B-ISUP
@item MTP3b
@item SSCOP
@item AAL5
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface F
@subsection Reference Interface F

This is the interface of the Media Gateway Controller to Back End OSS.

@c @figure{voip_iff,9,F Interface}

Protocols at this interface include:

@itemize ---
@item ENUM
@item SPIRITS
@item AAA
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface G
@subsection Reference Interface G

This is the interface of the H.323 Gatekeeper or SIP Proxy to the back end OSS.

@c @figure{voip_ifg,10,G Interface}

Protocols at this interface include:

@itemize ---
@item ENUM
@item SPIRITS
@item AAA
@end itemize

In initial phases of the VoIP Switch, the G Interface will be internal to the platform.  The G
Interface will be exposed in later phases.

@node Reference Interface J
@subsection Reference Interface J

This is the interface of the Media Gateway Controller to the Signalling Gateway.

@figref{11}
illustrates the protocols at the @dfn{J Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifj,11,J Interface}

In initial phases of the VoIP Switch, the J interafe will be internal to the platform.  The J
Interface will be exposed in later phases.

@subsubsection Interface J -- SS7

@figref{11a}
illustrates the protocols in support of SS7 signalling at the @dfn{J Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifj_ss7,11a,J Interface --- SS7}

Protocols at this interface for SS7 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item TUA
@item SUA
@item ISUA
@item M3UA
@item M2UA
@item M2PA
@item SCTP
@item TALI
@item TCP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface J -- ISDN

@figref{11b}
illustrates the protocols in support of ISDN signalling at the @dfn{J Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifj_isdn,11b,J Interface --- ISDN}

Protocols at this interface for ISDN operation include:

@itemize ---
@item IUA
@item DUA
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@subsubsection Interface J -- GR303/V5.2

@figref{11c}
illustrates the protocols in support of GR303/V5.2 signalling at the @dfn{J Interface}.

@figure{voip_ifj_gr303v5,11c,J Interface --- GR303/V5.2}

Protocols at this interface for GR303/V5.2 operation include:

@itemize ---
@item V5UA
@item GR303UA
@item SCTP
@end itemize

@node Reference Interface N
@subsection Reference Interface N

This is the interface of the Media Gateway Controller to the Media Gateway.

@c @figure{voip_ifj,12,N Interface}

Protocols at this interface include:

@itemize ---
@item MGCP
@item H.248/MEGACO
@item TCP
@item SCTP
@end itemize

In initial phases of the VoIP Switch, the N interface will be internal to the platform.  The N
Interface will be exposed in later phases.

@node Protocol Architecture
@chapter Protocol Architecture
@cindex Protocol architecture

@c @figref{6}
illustrates the protocol configuration for the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch system.  The protocol stack uses
the following OpenSS7 stack components:

@c @figure{voip_proto,6,Protocol Architecture}

The following Protocol Stacks are provided as part of the OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stacks:

@menu
* Applications::
* SS7 Stack::
* SIGTRAN Stack::
* ISDN Stack::
* VoIP Stack::
* MG Stack::
@end menu

@node Applications
@section Applications

@menu
* OpenSwitch Call Framework Application::
@end menu

@node OpenSwitch Call Framework Application
@subsection OpenSwitch Call Framework Application
@cindex OpenSwitch call framework application

The OpenSwitch Call Framework Application uses the OpenSwitch C++ call framework supporting Call
Control Interface (CCI) based called control, Media Gateway Interface (MGI) based media switching
and conversion, and Transaction Component Interface (TCI) based transactions.  This is the module
that performs call control, transaction services, and media switching conversion.  This component is
also responsible for triggers, digit translations, call and feature usage record generation,
operational measurements, call and feature statistics and maintenance.  To perform its functions it
interfaces with ISUP, ISDN, BICC, SIP and H.323 signalling stacks using the published Call Control
Interface (CCI), interfaces with the Media Gateway (MG) switching and conversion control stack using
the published Media Gateway Interface (MGI), and interfaces with the transaction engine using the
published Transaction Component Interface (TCI). Because the CCI, MGI and TCI are largely
independent of the protocol stack providing call control signalling, the protocol stack providing
media switchingconversion services, and the protocol stack providing transaction services, the
OpenSwitch Call Framework application can be migrated to other ISUP and ISDN related protocols (e.g.
BSSAP) and to other MG control protocols (e.g. MGCP or H.248) without significant impact on the
OpenSwitch Call Framework.


@node SS7 Stack
@section SS7 Stack

SS7 stack components provide support for protocols in the protocol profile at the @dfn{E.b
Interface} (@pxref{Reference Interface E.b}).  They provide @dfn{Signalling Gateway (SG)} function
within the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch for support of SS7 SIGTRAN protocols at the @dfn{J Interface},
(@pxref{Reference Interface J}).
@footnote{Initial phases of the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch use the @dfn{J Interface} internal to the
platform.  Subsequent phases expose the @dfn{J Interface}.}

@menu
* ISUP/BICC/ISDN Operations Maintenance and Administration::
* Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP)::
* Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) Driver::
* Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Driver::
* Global Title Translations (GTT)::
* Message Transfer Part (MTP)::
* Signalling Link (SL) Module::
* Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) Module::
@end menu

@node ISUP/BICC/ISDN Operations Maintenance and Administration
@subsection ISUP/BICC/ISDN Operations Maintenance and Administration
@cindex ISUP/BICC/ISDN operations maintenance and administration

The ISUP/BICC/ISDN OAM&P module is responsible for configuration of the SS7 and ISDN stacks,
maintenance, statistics collection, operational measurements, management events and controls, log
and alarm generation.  This is a daemon process that is typically customized to meet a specific
application.

@node Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP)
@subsection Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP)
@cindex ISUP

The ISUP driver performs the call functions necessary for switching calls under ISUP control.  The
driver is capable of acting in originating, intermediate and terminating switching roles in both the
National and International networks.  The driver provides interface to the OpenSwitch Call Framework
application using the OpenSS7 Call Control Interface (CCI).  This is the same interface that is used
by the BICC, ISDN, SIP and H.323 drivers as well as OpenSS7 BSSAP, V5.2 and GR303 drivers.

@c @figuresized{isup,40,Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP) Module,3in}

The ISUP drvier supports all CCITT/ITU-T version (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including circuit management.  The ISUP driver provides a specialized Call Control
Interface (CCI) to its users and accepts an Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI) from below.

The ISUP driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux Kernel for maximum performance.
The primary scale limiting characteristics of the ISUP drvier is the number of simultaneous
calls and the rate of call attempts.  Each simultaenous call requires state information and dynamic
call information.  Call identifier indexed hash tables must be appropriately sized and the mean and
maximum simultaneous calls should be known for proper sizing.

The Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP) @dfn{STREAMS} driver is responsible
for providing ISUP services on top of a Message Transfer Part (MTP) or MTP Level 3 User Adaptation
Layer (M3UA) stream.

The OpenSS7 ISUP module supports all ISUP functions with the exception of performing actions on the
bearer circuits.  Actions on the bearer circuits are expected to be performed by the ISUP User
utilizing the @dfn{Media Gateway (MG)} stack components.

Message Transfer Part (MTP) streams as linked beneath the ISUP module to provide MTP services to
ISUP.  Alternately, a SIGTRAN MTP Level 3 User Adatapation Layer (M3UA) or OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS}
over
@cindex SCTP
SCTP stream may be linked.

The OpenSS7 ISUP driver contains all the necessary state machines, timers, circuit management and
error handling as required by the ITU-T, ETSI and ANSI specifications.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{isup(4), isup(4), isup(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+isup, @b{isup}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) Driver
@subsection Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) Driver
@cindex TCAP

The transaction capabilities application part driver performs the essential transaction functions of
the SS7 signalling stack.  SCCP or SUA streams are linked under the driver and the driver provides
the functions of a TCAP SSP or SCP, MSC or HLR, SMSC and other TCAP nodes.  Transaction Capabilities
Application Part streams bound to INAP, MAP or LNP TCAP-SAPs are accessed by the transaction
application using the Transaction Component Interface (TCI).

@figuresized{tcap,15,Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) Modules,3in}

The TCAP driver supports all CCITT/ITU-T versions (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including operation classes 1 through 5.  The TCAP driver provides a specialized TR and TC
interface to its users and accepts an X/Open NPI Revision 2.0 interface from beneath.  In addition, a
TPI Revision 2.0 user interface supporting an X/Open XNS 5.2 mOSI XTI library interface is provided.

The TCAP driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.
The primary scale limiting characteristic of the TCAP driver is the number of simultaneous open
transactions.  Each open transaction requires a number of timers, state information and dynamic
transaction information such as addressing.  Transaction Identifier indexed hash tables must be
appropriately sized and the mean and maximum simultaneous open transactions should be known for
proper sizing.

The Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) @dfn{STREAMS} module is responsible for
providing TCAP services on top of a Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) or SCCP-User
Adaptation Layer (SUA) stream.  In addition, it is possible to use an ISO/OSI Network Service
Provider to provide the network services to TCAP.

The OpenSS7 TCAP component has message encoding and decoding for ITU-T/ETSI Application Context TCAP
and ANSI Private TCAP.  Interfaces provided to TCAP users include an XTI/mOSI capable TPI Version
2.0 interface, a Transaction Interface (TRI) as described in ITU-T Q.791, and a Component Interface
(TCI) as also described in ITU-T Q.791.  The ITU-T Q.791 TR and TC interfaces are support Java
JTCAP.

Of these interfaces, the Transaction Interface (TRI) and Component Interface (TCI) are most
efficient.  This is because it is not necessary to open a new stream for each transaction as is the
case with the TPI interface and the XTI/mOSI.

The OpenSS7 TCAP module supports all Operations Classes.

A SIGTRAN TCAP-User Adaptation  Layer (TUA) or OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS} over
@cindex SCTP
SCTP multiplexing driver can be used between the TCAP and the TCAP-User to export the TCAP/TCAP-User
interface between a provider and user host.

Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) streams are linked beneath the TCAP module to provide SCCP
services to TCAP.  Alternately, a SIGTRAN SCCP-User Adaptation Layer (SUA) or OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS}
over
@cindex SCTP
SCTP stream may be linked.

The OpenSS7 TCAP module contains all the necessary state machines, timers, transaction error
handling and component error handling as required by the ITU-T, ETSI and ANSI specifications.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{tcap(4), tcap(4), tcap(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+tcap, @b{tcap}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Driver
@subsection Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Driver
@cindex SCCP

The signalling connection control part driver performs the essential transport functions of the SS7
signalling stack.  Message Transfer Part or MTP3 User Adaptation Layer streams are linked under the
driver and the driver provides the functions of a SCCP endpoint or relay with full global title
translations.  Signalling Connection Control Part streams bound to TCAP SCCP-SAPs are linked under
the TCAP driver to form a complete SS7 stack in support of call transactions.

@figuresized{sccp,16,Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Module,3in}

The SCCP driver supports all CCITT/ITU-T versions (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including both connectionless and connection-oriented protocol classes 0 through 3.  The
SCCP driver provides an extended NPI Revision 2.0 interface to its users and accepts an NPI Version
2.0 (Connectionless) MTP interface from beneath or a specialized OpenSS7 MTPI interface.  In
addition, a TPI Revision 2.0 user interface supporting an X/Open XNS 5.2 XTI library interface is
provided.

The SCCP driver also provide GTT streams for servicing Global Title Translations requests.  These
streams can be used by a user-space program for servicing GTT requests from a local or remote
database, or can have specialized @dfn{STREAMS} modules pushed to perform rule-based GTT in the
operating system kernel.

The SCCP driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

The Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) @dfn{STREAMS} module is responsible for providing SCCP
services on top of a Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 3 (MTP3) or MTP3-User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
@cindex M3UA
stream.  In addition, it is possible to use an ISO/OSI connectionless Network Service Provider to
provide the network services to SCCP.

The OpenSS7 SCCP component has message encoding and decoding for ITU-T/ETSI and ANSI SCCP.
Interfaces provided to SCCP users include an XTI/OSI capable TPI Revision 2.0 interface, an NPI
Revision 2.0 interface, and an SCCP-specific interface.

The OpenSS7 SCCP module supports all Protocol Classes.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sccp(4), sccp(4), sccp(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sccp, @b{sccp}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Global Title Translations (GTT)
@subsection Global Title Translations (GTT)

The Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Global Title Translations (GTT) module is responsible
for responding to SCCP-GTT translations originating from the SCCP module beneath and is responsible
for generating outgoing SCCP-GTT translations to the SCCP module beneath.  To perform its function,
the SCCP-GTT indexes all information based on the SCCP Address, including dynamic (state) and
provisioned (result) information.  For performance in both a testing and production environment, the
module provides three levels of database partitioning and caching:

@table @emph
@item Rules
Rules can be provided that are used to determine provisioned information based on components of
the index (GT).  These rules can be used to generate a rather large simulated database without
maintaining or accessing large database record areas.  The rule base provides a simulated
partitioned database.  Each rule refers to a template or partial template of provisioned data.
@item Templates
Templates can be provided that specify a profile of provisioned information for a class of
indexes (GT).  Templates provide a compact local in-kernel cache of templates.  Indexes reference
templates rather than complete records.
@item Records
Records can be provided that specify the provisioned information for the specific index (GT).
Records provide a local in-kernel cache of specified records.  Records are unique for each index.
@item Translations
The application can be queried by indicating the index (GT) and the module awaits a response
containing the provisioned information.  Translations provide access to an external database or
algorithm.

For the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch, messages can be routed on Translation Type or on the basis of the
Subsystem Number alone, resulting in a simple rule provided to the SCCP-GTT.  If the OpenSS7 VoIP
Switch application is not expected to perform in any other role, the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch application
can bind as the "Default Destination" for all SCCP Unitdata messages, obviating the need for GTT.
@end table

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sccp(4), sccp(4), sccp(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sccp, @b{sccp}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Message Transfer Part (MTP)
@subsection Message Transfer Part (MTP)
@cindex MTP

The message transfer part driver performs the essential network functions of the SS7 signalling
stack.  Signalling link streams (see below) are linked under the driver and the driver provides the
functions of a Signalling End Point (SEP) or Signalling Transfer Point (STP).

Message Transfer Part streams bound to ISUP MTP-SAPs are linked under the ISUP driver above to form
a complete SS7 stack in support of call switching.
@footnote{Message Transfer Part streams bound to ISUP MTP-SAPs are linked under the ISUP driver
above to form a complete SS7 stack in support of call switching.  Message Transfer Part streams
bound to SCCP MTP-SAPs are linked under the SCCP driver above to form a complete SS7 stack in
support of transaction services.}

@figuresized{mtp3,17,Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 3 (MTP3) Module,3in}

The MTP driver supports all CCITT/ITU-T versions (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including full transfer function.  The MTP driver provides a specialized MTP interface to
its users, in addition to an NPI Revision 2.0 connectionless interface.  A TPI Revision 2.0
(connectionless) user interface support X/Open XNS 5.2 XTI library functions is also provided.

The MTP driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 3 (MTP3) module is responsible for providing MTP services to
its users.

The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 2 (MTP2) module is responsible for providing MTP services to
its users.

@figuresized{mtp2,18,Message Transfer Part (MTP) Level 2 (MTP2) Module,3in}

These are an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack components; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{mtp(4), mtp(4), mtp(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+mtp, @b{mtp}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Signalling Link (SL) Module
@subsection Signalling Link (SL) Module
@cindex SL

The signalling link module performs HDLC and SS7 Message Transfer Part Level 2 (Link) functions on a
raw communications channel provided by the X400P driver and the E400P card.  This module
converts between the channel media stream (raw octet stream) and an SS7 signalling link signalling
stream.  These streams comprise SS7 signalling links and are linked under the MTP driver.

The signalling link module performs HDLC and SS7 Message Transfer Part Level 2 (Link) functions on a
raw communications channel, such as that provided by the X400P driver and the E400P card.
@cindex E400P
This module converts between the channel media stream (raw octet stream) and an SS7 signalling link
signalling stream.  These streams comprise SS7 signalling links and are linked under the MTP driver.

The SL module supports CCITT/ITU-T versions (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including Q.703 and
@cindex Q.703 Annex B
Q.703 Annex B (HSL) operation.  TTC JQ.703 (1994) is also supported.
The SL module provides a specialized SL interface to its users, in addition to an NCR Comten CDI
Revision 2.0 Style 2 connectionless interface.

The SL module is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

The Signalling Link (SL) module is responsible for providing SL services to its users.

@figuresized{sl,29,Signalling Link (SL) Module,3in}

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sl(4), sl(4), sl(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sl, @b{sl}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) Module
@subsection Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) Module
@cindex SDT

The signalling data terminal module performs HDLC and lower level SS7 Message Transfer Part Level 2
(Link) functions including DAEDR, DAEDT, AERM, SUERM and SU Compression/Repetition on a raw
communications channel or span, such as that provided by OpenSS7 Channel Drivers.  This module
converts between the raw channel media stream (raw octet stream) and an SS7 signalling data terminal
stream.  These streams comprise SS7 signalling data terminals and are pushed beneath the SL module.

The SDT module supports CCITT/ITU-T version (Blue Book forward), ETSI and ANSI versions (1992
forward), including Q.703 and
@cindex Q.703 Annex B
Q.703 Annex B (HSL) operation.  TTC JQ.703 (1994) is also supported.
The SDT module provides a specialized SDT interface to its users, in addition to an NCR Comten CDI
Revision 2.0 Style 2 connectionless interface.

The Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) module is responsible for providing SDT services to its users.

@figuresized{sdt,20,Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) Module,3in}

This is an existing OpenSS7 SS7 stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sdt(4), sdt(4), sdt(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sdt, @b{sdt}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo


@node SIGTRAN Stack
@section SIGTRAN Stack

SIGTRAN stack components provide support for protocols in the protocol profile at the @dfn{J
Interface},
@footnote{Initial phases of the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch use the @dfn{J Interface} internal to the
platform.  Subsequent phases expose the @dfn{J Interface}, @pxref{Reference Interface J}.}
in support of SS7, ISDN and GR303/V5.2 signalling protocols at @dfn{E.b Interface}.
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface E.b}.}

@menu
* SS7 User Adaptation Layers::
* ISDN User Adaptation Layers::
* GR303/V5.2 User Adaptation Layers::
@end menu

@node SS7 User Adaptation Layers
@subsection SS7 User Adaptation Layers
@cindex SS7 User Adaptation Layers

SS7 User Adaptation Layers provide transport of SS7 signalling between the @dfn{Media Gateway
Controller} and @dfn{Signalling Gateway} functions in the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch at the @dfn{J
Interface}.
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface J}.}
These protocols at the @dfn{J Interface} support SS7 signalling protocols at the @dfn{E.b
Interface}.
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface E.b}.}

@menu
* ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)::
* TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA)::
* SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA)::
* MTP3 User Part Adaptation Layer (M3UA)::
* MTP2 User Part Adaptation Layer (M2UA)::
* MTP2 User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)::
* Tekelec's Adaptation Layer Interface (TALI)::
@end menu

@node ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)
@subsubsection ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)
@cindex ISUA

This is an existing OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{isua(4), isua(4), isua(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+isua, @b{isua}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA)
@subsubsection TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA)
@cindex TUA

This is an existing OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{tua(4), tua(4), tua(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+tua, @b{tua}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA)
@subsubsection SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA)
@cindex SUA

The SUA driver provides the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch with the ability to act as an SUA AS (Application Server) in
conjunction with an SUA SG (Signalling Gateway).  In this project, the SG function is performed by
existing lab equipment.  The SUA driver accepts the transport of the SCCP to SCCP-User interface
from the SG to the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch.  The SUA driver links
@cindex SCTP
SCTP driver streams underneath it to provide the
transport services for exporting the SCCP-User interface.  The SUA driver provides the same
interfaces to its users as the OpenSS7 SCCP.

The SUA driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sua(4), sua(4), sua(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sua, @b{sua}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node MTP3 User Part Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
@subsubsection MTP3 User Part Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
@cindex M3UA

The M3UA provides transport of MTP3 User signalling between an MTP provider such as the OpenSS7 MTP
driver and an MTP User such as the OpenSS7 ISUP driver.  The M3UA driver links SCTP transport
streams under the driver and provides for both ASP, SGP and combined ASP/SGP operation.  The M3UA is
used for redundancy and for distributing SS7 MTP3 across multiple hosts.
The M3UA driver links
@cindex SCTP
SCTP driver streams underneath it to provide the transport
services for exporting the MTP-User interface.  The M3UA driver provides the same interface to its
users as the OpenSS7 MTP.

The M3UA driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{m3ua(4), m3ua(4), m3ua(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+m3ua, @b{m3ua}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node MTP2 User Part Adaptation Layer (M2UA)
@subsubsection MTP2 User Part Adaptation Layer (M2UA)
@cindex M2UA

The M2UA provides transport of MTP2 User signalling between an SL provider such as the OpenSS7 SL
module and an SL User such as the OpenSS7 MTP driver.  The M2UA driver links SCTP transport streams
under the driver and provides for both ASP, SGP and combined ASP/SGP operation.  The M2UA is used
for redundancy and for sharing SS7 signalling links across multiple hosts.

The M2UA driver provides the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch with the ability to act as an M2UA AS (Application
Server) in conjunction with an M2UA SG (Signalling Gateway).  The M2UA driver links
@cindex SCTP
SCTP driver streams underneath it to provide the transport services for exporting the SL-User
interface.  The M2UA driver provides the same interface to its users as the OpenSS7 SL module.

@node MTP2 User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
@subsubsection MTP2 User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
@cindex M2PA

@node Tekelec's Adaptation Layer Interface (TALI)
@subsubsection Tekelec's Adaptation Layer Interface (TALI)
@cindex TALI

@node ISDN User Adaptation Layers
@subsection ISDN User Adaptation Layers
@cindex ISDN User Adaptation Layers

ISDN User Adaptation Layers provide transport of ISDN signalling between the @dfn{Media Gateway
Controller} and @dfn{Signalling Gateway} functions in the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch at the @dfn{J
Interface}.
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface J}.}
These protocols at the @dfn{J Interface} support ISDN signalling protocols at the @dfn{E.b
Interface}.
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface E.b}.}

@menu
* ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)::
* DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer (DUA)::
@end menu

@node ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)
@subsubsection ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)
@cindex IUA

@node DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer (DUA)
@subsubsection DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer (DUA)
@cindex DUA

@node GR303/V5.2 User Adaptation Layers
@subsection GR303/V5.2 User Adaptation Layers
@cindex GR303/V5.2 User Adaptation Layers

@menu
* GR303 User Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)::
* V5.2 User Adaptation Layer (V5UA)::
@end menu

@node GR303 User Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)
@subsubsection GR303 User Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)
@cindex GR303UA

@node V5.2 User Adaptation Layer (V5UA)
@subsubsection V5.2 User Adaptation Layer (V5UA)
@cindex V5UA

@node ISDN Stack
@section ISDN Stack

@menu
* Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)::
* Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Data Link (DL) Module::
@end menu

@node Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
@subsection Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
@cindex ISDN

The ISDN (Q.931) driver performs the call functions necessary for switching calls under ISDN
control.  This includes both Network and User modes of operation.  The driver provides interface to
the Q.699 call control application using the open OpenSS7 Call Control Interface (CCI).  This is the
same interface that is used by the ISUP driver as well as OpenSS7 BSSAP, BICC, SIP, H.323, V5.2, and
GR303 drivers.

@node Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Data Link (DL) Module
@subsection Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Data Link (DL) Module
@cindex ISDN DL

The data link module performs HDLC and ISDN Q.921 functions on a raw communications channel provided
by the X400P driver and the E400P card.  This module converts between the channel media
stream (raw octet stream) and the ISDN Data Link (Q.921) signalling stream.  These streams comprise
ISDN D-channels and are linked under the ISDN driver.

@node VoIP Stack
@section VoIP Stack

@menu
* SIP/H.323 Operations Maintenance and Administration::
* Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)::
* Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Driver::
* H.323 Driver::
* H.245 Data Link Module::
@end menu

@node SIP/H.323 Operations Maintenance and Administration
@subsection SIP/H.323 Operations Maintenance and Administration
@cindex SIP/H.323 operations maintenance and administration

The SIP/H.323 OAM&P module is responsible for configuration of the SIP and H.323 stacks,
maintenance, statistics collection, operational measurements, management events and controls, log
and alarm generation.  This is a daemon process that is typically customized to meet a specific
application.

@node Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)
@subsection Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)
@cindex BICC

The BICC driver performs the call functions necessary for switching calls under BICC control.  The
driver is capable of acting in originating, intermediate and terminating switching roles in both the
National and International networks.  The driver provides interface to the OpenSwitch Call Framework
application using the OpenSS7 Call Control Interface (CCI).  This is the same interface that is used
by the ISUP, ISDN, SIP and H.323 drivers as well as OpenSS7 BSSAP, V5.2 and GR303 drivers.

@node Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Driver
@subsection Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Driver
@cindex SIP

The SIP driver performs the call functions necessary for switching calls under SIP control.  The
driver is capable of acting as a SIP proxy or forwarding server and performing SIP-T ISUP/SIP
interworking.  The driver provides interface to the OpenSwitch Call Framework application using the
OpenSS7 Call Control Interface (CCI).  This is the same interface that is used by ISUP, BICC, ISDN
and H.323 drivers as well as OpenSS7 BSSAP, V5.2 and GR303 drivers.

@node H.323 Driver
@subsection H.323 Driver
@cindex H.323

The H.323 driver performs the call functions necessary for switching calls under H.323 control.
This includes both Network and User modes of operation and provides an integrated Gatekeeper.  The
driver provides interface to the OpenSwitch Call Framework using the open OpenSS7 Call Control
Interface (CCI).  This is the same interface that is used by the ISUP, BICC, ISDN and SIP drivers as
well as OpenSS7 BSSAP, V5.2 and GR303 drivers.

@node H.245 Data Link Module
@subsection H.245 Data Link Module
@cindex H.245 DL

The data link modules performs H.245 encapsulation over TCP/IP provided by the INET driver.  This
module converts between the TCP/IP transport and the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) common to
H.245 and the ISDN Data Link (Q.921) signalling streams.  These streams are equivalent to ISDN
D-channels and are linked under the H.323 driver in the same fashion as the Q.921 Data Link streams
are linked under the ISDN driver.



@node MG Stack
@section MG Stack

The @dfn{MG Stack} provides the @dfn{Media Gateway} functional capabilities for the VoIP Switch.  In
initial phases of the VoIP Switch, this functionality is integral to the VoIP Switch platform and
protocols used at the @dfn{N Interface} will not be exposed until subsequent phases of the project.

The purpose of the @dfn{Media Gateway} function is to provide conversion between various media
streams and channels and to provide switching capability between media streams and channels
regardless of stream or channel type.

Conferencing, switching and conversion of media streams and channels is performed under the control
of a @dfn{Media Gateway} control protocol at the @dfn{N Interface}.  The MG stack provides external
protocols and internal interfaces at the @dfn{N Interface}.  It also provides some lower level
interfaces and protocols (multiplex and channel) that are utilized by the media gateway protocol
modules to perform their functions.  Multiplex and channel drivers provide a suitable abstraction of
underlying interface hardware for this purpose.

The following drivers and modules provide both the control plane and data plane capability required
by the @dfn{Media Gateway}:

@menu
* H.248/MEGACO Driver::
* MGCP Driver::
* Media Gateway (MG) Driver::
* Channel Multiplex Module (MX)::
* Real-Time Protocol/Real-Time Control Protocol (RTP/RTCP)::
* TE410 Channel Driver (X400P-CH)::
@end menu

@node H.248/MEGACO Driver
@subsection H.248/MEGACO Driver
@cindex H.248
@cindex MEGACO

The MEGACO
@footnote{H.248.1, "Gateway Control Protocol Version 1", (March 2002), Geneva, IUT-T
Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU.}

The MEGACO driver provides two roles: a @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} role and a @dfn{Media
Gateway} role.

In the @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} role, the MEGACO driver provides the OpenSS7 @dfn{Media
Gateway Inteface (MGI)} primitive interface at upper streams and accepts IP transport streams (TCP
or SCTP) linked underneath the driver to communication with the @dfn{Media Gateway}.

In the @dfn{Media Gateway} role, the MEGACO driver provides a configuration control stream at the
upper interface and accepts both IP transport stream (TCP or SCTP) linked underneath the driver, as
well as @dfn{Media Gateway Interface (MGI)} streams linked underneath the driver to provide for
control of a local media gateway from a remote @dfn{Media Gateway Controller}.

The driver can act in both roles simultaneously, providing a proxy between a @dfn{Media Gateway
Controller} and a @dfn{Media Gateway}.

Although initial phases of the VoIP Switch will use this protocol at the @dfn{N Interface},
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface N}.} this interface will not be exposed until subsequent phases
of the project.

@node MGCP Driver
@subsection MGCP Driver
@cindex MGCP

The MGCP
@footnote{RFC 2705, "Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP) Version 1.0," (October, 1999), The
Internet Society.@*RFC 3435, "Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP) Version 1.0," (January 2003),
The Internet Society.}

The MGCP driver provides two roles: a @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} role and a @dfn{Media
Gateway} role.

In the @dfn{Media Gateway Controller} role, the MGCP driver provides the OpenSS7 @dfn{Media
Gateway Inteface (MGI)} primitive interface at upper streams and accepts IP transport streams (TCP
or SCTP) linked underneath the driver to communication with the @dfn{Media Gateway}.

In the @dfn{Media Gateway} role, the MGCP driver provides a configuration control stream at the
upper interface and accepts both IP transport stream (TCP or SCTP) linked underneath the driver, as
well as @dfn{Media Gateway Interface (MGI)} streams linked underneath the driver to provide for
control of a local media gateway from a remote @dfn{Media Gateway Controller}.

The driver can act in both roles simultaneously, providing a proxy between a @dfn{Media Gateway
Controller} and a @dfn{Media Gateway}.

Although initial phases of the VoIP Switch will use this protocol at the @dfn{N Interface},
@footnote{@xref{Reference Interface N}.} this interface will not be exposed until subsequent phases
of the project.

@node Media Gateway (MG) Driver
@subsection Media Gateway (MG) Driver
@cindex MG

The media gateway driver provides for switching between media streams within and across multiplexed
media streams provided by the MX module below.  This component currently provides for local
switching within the host platform, but has been designed to permit remote MG control using MGCP and
MEGACO (H.248).  It also provides for continuity test tone generation, detection and loop back.  It
performs conference on the fly and is also responsible for tone generation, playing announcements
and detecting in-band DTMF digits.  The MG driver interfaces to the Q.699 Call Control application
using the open OpenSS7 Media Gateway Interface (MGI) specification which permits for local switch
fabric control as well as remote MG control using protocols such as MGCP and MEGACO (H.248).

@node Channel Multiplex Module (MX)
@subsection Channel Multiplex Module (MX)
@cindex MX

The function of the MX module is to provide access to multiple 64kbps channels over a single
multiplexed media stream.

@node Real-Time Protocol/Real-Time Control Protocol (RTP/RTCP)
@subsection Real-Time Protocol/Real-Time Control Protocol (RTP/RTCP)
@cindex RTP/RTCP

The real-time protocol/real-time control protocol module is a MX (Multiplexdriver that runs over
UDP, TCP or SCTP and provides an MX interface that can be linked under the Media Gateway (MG)
driver.  RTP streams are managed by the Media Gateway (MG) driver in the same fashion as 64kbps
channels, GSM 05.03 channels and other communications channels.

@node TE410 Channel Driver (X400P-CH)
@subsection TE410 Channel Driver (X400P-CH)
@cindex TE405/410

The function of the TE410 Channel driver is to provide for the termination of 64kbps digital
paths on both the telephone network and OpenSS7 complex side of the device.  This driver provides
direct access to the 64kbp digital path to OpenSS7 media and signalling protocol modules as well as
providing E1 management, framing, coding, alarms, and synchronization.


@node IP Transport Stack
@section IP Transport Stack

@menu
* User Datagram Protocol (UDP)::
* Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)::
* Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)::
@end menu

@node User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
@subsection User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
@cindex UDP

The INET driver provides a STREAMS interface (TPI) to the native Linux NET4 TCP/IP scokets
implementation of UDP.  This permits UDP TPI streams to be linked as a basic transport under other
OpenSS7 stack components such as the RTP/RTCP MX driver.

@node Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
@subsection Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
@cindex TCP

The INET driver provides a STREAMS interface (TPI) to the native Linux NET4 TCP/IP sockets
implementation of TCP.  This permits TCP TPI streams to be linked as a basic transport under other
OpenSS7 stack components such as SIP, H.323, MGCP, H.248 and TALI.

@node Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
@subsection Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
@cindex SCTP

OpenSS7 has two implementations (@dfn{STREAMS} and Linux Sockets) that provide support for this new
transport protocol and provide transport for SIGTRAN and other protocols.  The @dfn{STREAMS} SCTP
implementation provides an NPI Revision 2.0 and TPI Revision 2.0 interface to its users.  Also
supported is an X/Open XNS 5.2 XTI library.  The Linux Native SCTP implementation provides a Sockets
interface.

This is an existing OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack component; for documentation, see:
@ifinfo
@ref{sctp(4), sctp(4), sctp(4), *manpages*, The Manual Pages}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man/man2html?4+sctp, @b{sctp}(4)}.
@end ifnotinfo

@node Software Architecture
@chapter Software Architecture
@cindex Software architecture

This chapter details the software configuration of OpenSS7 solutions.  Open SS7 stack software is
based on the @dfn{STREAMS} facility running on the Linux Operating System.  The provides for use of
the Linux Operating System while maintaining portability and consistency with major UNIX operating
systems that provide an @dfn{SVR 4.2 ES/MP STREAMS} facility.

@menu
* Linux Operating System::
* STREAMS Facility::
* OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP Stack::
@end menu

@node Linux Operating System
@section Linux Operating System
@cindex Linux

The OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS} releases and stacks currently support the 2.4 Linux Kernel.  A Linux
kernel version greater than or equal to 2.4.18 is recommended.  The Linux 2.5 and 2.6 kernel series
are not yet supported.  The Linux 2.5 series will likely not ever be supported.  Linux 2.6 kernel
series will be supported once the kernel releases stabilize.  Linux 2.4 kernels released by popular
distributions are supported.  These include kernel.org releases, RedHat (7.2, 9, EL3), WhiteBox EL3,
Fedora Core 1 (FC1), Debian Woody, SuSE 8.2.  Currently our preferred distribution is Fedora Core 1
with all updates applied.
@cindex RedHat
@cindex WhiteBox EL3
@cindex Debian
@cindex SuSE
@cindex Fedora

@node STREAMS Facility
@section STREAMS Facility
@cindex STREAMS

Although OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS} SS7 and VoIP stacks are tested primarily on ix86 hardware, the
stacks compile and install on PPC (MPC 8260), HPPA, and other processor architectures supported by
the Linux 2.4 kernel.

@menu
* Linux STREAMS (LiS)::
@end menu

@node Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@subsection Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@cindex LiS

@dfn{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}
@footnote{At the time that this document what written, GCOM had just announced that it is no longer
supporting the Open Source Linux STREAMS package.  The OpenSS7 Project continues to support our
autoconf/RPM 2.16.18 releases of LiS until such time that Linux Fast-STREAMS is complete and
available as a replacement.  The newer 2.18 GCOM releases are not supported.}
is a mixture of LGPL and GPL code that is available from GCOM.  OpenSS7
provides stabilized autoconf/RPM releases of LiS on the OpenSS7 Project website.  Current
recommendations for the use of LiS is the LiS-2.16.18-19 release available from the OpenSS7 Project
website.  Direct releases from GCOM are not recommended as the OpenSS7 releases have a number of
patches that correct difficulties with the GCOM releases.  Also, OpenSS7 Project releases of
LiS-2.16.18-19 include the OpenSS7  X/Open XNS 5.2 compatible XTI Library, timod and tirdwr modules,
and corrected INET and LDL drivers.

@node OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP Stack
@section OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP Stack
@cindex OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stack

The OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stacks are implemented using the @dfn{STREAMS} facility.  Protocol
modules within the stack are implemented as @dfn{STREAMS} modules, device drivers, multiplexing
drivers and pseudo-device drivers.  The @dfn{STREAMS} facility has the ability to stack modules and
multiplexing drivers above a real or pseudo-device driver using @dfn{STREAMS} I_PUSH and I_LINK
facilities.  As STEAMS modules (and drivers) run within the context of the Operating System Kernel
using message-based scheduling, greatly increased performance is experienced over equivalent
user-space applications.  @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers communicate by passing @dfn{STREAMS}
message blocks upstream and downstream with bidirectional queueing and 256 levels of priority.  In
addition, @dfn{STREAMS} provides memory management, timer, locking, synchronization, flow control
and other facilities commonly used by protocol modules.

@figure{osimap,21,SS7 to ISO/OSI Mapping}

Each OpenSS7 protocol module provides standardized X/Open ISO/OSI interfaces as well as more SS7
specialized interfaces.  Many of the OpenSS7 protocols modules provide TPI Revision 2.0 interfaces
with support for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.

@figuresized{stack,22,STREAMS SS7/SIGTRAN Stack Architecture,3in}

@figref{22} illustrates the organization of @dfn{STREAMS} modules, multiplexing drivers,
pseudo-device drivers and real device drivers in the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.  At each interface, the
equivalent SIGTRAN User Adaptation Layer (UA) can be used.  So, for example, between MTP Level 3 and
its Users, the M3UA
@cindex M3UA
protocol can be employed.  Each UA provides the same lower layer interface and
upper layer interface.  So, M3UA
@cindex M3UA
provides an MTP/MTP-User interface at its lower layer interface as
well as at its upper layer interface.

@node Hardware Architecture
@chapter Hardware Architecture
@cindex Hardware architecture

@figref{23} illustrates the hardware configuration for the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch
evaluation platform.

@figuresized{platconf,23,Platform Architecture,5in}

The VoIP Switch prototype platform consists of a high-end ix86 single or multi processor PC loaded
with Linux running a 2.4 production kernel, LiS 2.16.18-22 and the OpenSS7 stack software.

As a highly scalable and carrier grade alternative, the prototype system could use the CPC 388 cards
@cindex CPC 388
running embedded Linux 2.4.18 (NexusWare24) on MPC8260 and performing backplane switching on H.100
and Ethernet rails on PCIMG 2.16 packet bus loaded with NexusWare (Linux 2.4.18), LiS 2.16.18-22 and
the OpenSS7 stack software.

SS7 ISUP IMTs and signalling links are terminated on the telephone network side of the device on one
of a number of TE410, CPC-384 or CPC-388 cards installed in either platform.  On the other side
of the platform, RTP connections are terminated on dual Ethernet devices or the PCIMG 2.16 packet
bus.  Signalling is performed over the same IP connections using BICC/M3UA (NNI), SIP (UNI) or H.245
(UNI).  The OpenSS7 complex side of the device is attached directly to the IP backbone and signals
to remote BICC switches, SIP proxies/clients or H.323 gatekeepers/clients.

The VoIP Switch prototype device performs conversion between the 64kbps voice channels terminated on
the TE410, CPC-384 or CPC-388 cards on the telephone network side of the device to RTP streams
on dual 10/100/1000 baseT or PICMG 2.16 packet bus using host or MPC8260 resources.

OAM&P of the prototype platform is performed over an internal LAN connection.

Hardware requirements are as follows:
@itemize
@item
1 x medium end (2.0 GHz) single processor, 19" rack mount, hardened chassis PC, 110 VAC commercial
power.
@item
2 x E400 Cards (or equivalent).
@cindex E400P
@item
4 x 100baseT Ethernet NICs (3com 905B or equivalent).
@end itemize

For a redundant configuration (two hosts serving the same gateway), twice the hardware is
required.

@menu
* Interface Devices::
@end menu

@node Interface Devices
@section Interface Devices
@cindex Interface devices

@menu
* T400P/E400P::
* TE405/410::
* A101/102/104c::
* Other Interface Cards::
@end menu

The interface device hardware cards listed below are supported for the OpenSS7 Platform.  All of the
interface device hardware listed here has good price-performance, however, varying levels of
performance (and therefore price) is available.  These cards are available either directly from the
card manufacturer or are also resold by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

For the VoIP Switch application, either the CPC 388 cards are recommended.
@cindex CPC 388

The following interface device hardware is available for the OpenSS7 Platform:

@node T400P/E400P
@subsection T400P/E400P
@cindex T400P
@cindex E400P

The T400P and E400P cards are 4-span T1 or E1 cards manufactured by
@uref{http://www.govarion.com/, Varion}.  These cards were previously manufactured by
@uref{http://www.digium.com/, Digium}.
@figref{24} shows a picture of a T400P card.

@figure{v400p,24,T400P/E400P}

The T400P and E400P cards have the lowest level of signalling performance due to the lack of
on-board HDLC functions.  Transfers to the host processor over the PCI bus use PCI I/O ports and
memory mapping.

@subsubheading Driver

These cards are supported by the X400 driver.

The function of the T/E400P Channel driver is to provide for the termination of 2.048Mbps,
1.544Mbps, 64kbps and 56kbps digital paths.  This driver provides direct access to the channelized
or unchannelized T1 or E1 digital paths to OpenSS7 media and signalling protocol modules as well as
providing T1 or E1 management, framing, coding, alarms, and synchronization.

@subsubheading Features

Following are the features of the T400P and E400P cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item 4 T1 or E1 spans per card.
@item Dallas framer.
@cindex Dallas framer
@item PLX PCI 9030 PCI bus chip.
@item Xilinx Spartan XC2S50 processor.
@cindex Xilinx
@item Raw transfer of octets from framers to PCI bus.
@item Uses OpenSS7 Soft-HDLC engine for SS7, ISDN and ISO.
@item 96 channels per card (T400P)
@item 124 channels per card (E400P).
@item Full span addressable.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the T400P and E400P cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Low cost.
@item PC Compatibility.
@item Released by Jim Dixon under the GNU Public License.
@item Open Hardware design: schematics, artwork and Gerber plots available.
@item Flash programmable Xilinx chip.
@item Field upgradable.
@item Supports a number of Open Source drivers.
@item Asterisk driver support.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the T400P and E400P cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Lower performance.
@item No on-board HLDC.
@item Cannot TDM switch on card or between cards, media channels must be transferred through host to switch between cards.
@item I/O Port and Memory Map instead of PCI DMA bus-mastering and burst transfers.
@item Does not run on high speed buses.
@item No integrated Ethernet for SIGTRAN and VoIP applications.
@item Synchronization per-card instead of per-system.
@end itemize

Ultimately, the performance limiting factor of the T400P and E400P cards is the bandwidth of
the PCI bus and the ability of the processor to perform Soft-HDLC and TDM switching in software.  A
350MHz processor is capable of processing the bandwidth of an entire E400P card (124 signalling
links) with a combined link throughput of 8.192 Mbps.

For the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch, this performance is more than adequate.  A medium grade 2GHz
PC should be capable of handling 2 cards (248 SS7 links) with adequate excess capacity available for
background operations.

These cards are very cost-effective and can provide 64kbps SS7 links at average incremental
interface cost of approximately $8.00 USD per signalling link.

@node TE405/410
@subsection TE405/410
@cindex TE405
@cindex TE410

The TE405/410 cards are 4-span E1/T1 cards manufactured by @uref{http://www.digium.com/,
Digium}.
These cards are a higher performance replacement for the T400P and E400P cards.
@figref{25} shows a picture of a T405P card.

@figure{t400p-ss7,25,TE405/410}

The TE405 and TE410 cards have a low level of signalling performance due to the lack of
on-board HDLC functions.  However, transfers to the host process over the PCI bus use bus-mastering
PCI burst DMA transfers, unlike their T400P and E400P predecessors.

@subsubheading Driver

These cards are supported by the TE400 driver.

The function of the TE405/410 Channel driver is to provide for the termination of 2.048Mbps,
1.544Mbps, 64kbps and 56kbps digital paths.  This driver provides direct access to the channelized
or unchannelized T1 or E1 digital paths to OpenSS7 media and signalling protocol modules as well as
providing T1 or E1 management, framing, coding, alarms, and synchronization.

@subsubheading Features

Following are the features of the TE405 and TE410 cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item 4 T1 or E1 spans per card.
@item PMC Sierra framer
@cindex PMC Sierra framer
@item PLX PCI 9030 PCI bus chip.
@item Xilinx Spartan XC2S50 processor.
@cindex Xilinx
@item Raw transfer of octets from framers to PCI bus.
@item Uses OpenSS7 Soft-HDLC engine for SS7, ISDN and ISO.
@item 96 channels per card (T1).
@item 124 channels per card (E1).
@item Full span addressable.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the TE405 and TE410 cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Lower cost.
@item PCI DMA bus-mastering and burst transfers.
@item Flash programmable Xilinx chip.
@item Field upgradable.
@item Supports a number of Open Source drivers.
@item Asterisk driver support.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the TE405 and TE410 cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Lower performance, although better than predecessor.
@item No on-board HLDC.
@item Cannot TDM switch on card or between cards, media channels must be transferred through host to switch between cards.
@item No integrated Ethernet for SIGTRAN and VoIP applications.
@item Synchronization per-card instead of per-system.
@end itemize

As with their predecessors, the performance limiting factor of the TE405 and TE410 cards is
the bandwidth of the PCI bus and the ability of the processor to perform Soft-HDLC and TDM switching
in software.  A 350MHz processor is capable of processing the bandwidth of an entire TE405 card
(124 signalling link) with a combined linke throughput of 8.192 Mbps.

For the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch, this performance is more than adequate.  A medium grade 2GHz PC should
be capable of handling 2 cards (248 SS7 links) with adequate excess capacity available for
background operations.

These cards are cost-effective and can provide 64kbps SS7 links at average incremental interface
cost of approximately $12.00 USD per signalling link.

@node A101/102/104c
@subsection A101/102/104c
@cindex A101c
@cindex A102c
@cindex A104c

The A101/102/104c cards are 1-, 2- and 4-span E1, T1 or J1 cards manufactured by
@uref{http://www.sangoma.com/, Sangoma}.
@figref{26} shows a picture of an A101c card.

@figure{a101c,26,A101/102/104c}

The A10Xc cards have an increased level of signalling performance due to availability of on-board
HDLC processing.  Transfers to the host are performed using bus-mastering PCI DMA burst transfers
for lower host processor overhead.  These cards do not support direct on-board TDM switching;
neither do they have integrated Ethernet.

@subsubheading Driver

These cards are supported by the A100 driver.

The function of the A100 Channel driver is to provide for the termination of 2.048Mbps,
1.544Mbps, 64kbps and 56kbps digital paths.  This driver provides direct access to the channelized
or unchannelized T1 or E1 digital paths to OpenSS7 media and signalling protocol modules as well as
providing T1 or E1 management, framing, coding, alarms, and synchronization.

@subsubheading Features

Following are the features of the A101c, A102c and A104c cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item 1, 2 or 4 E1 spans per card.
@item PMC Comet framer.
@cindex Comet framer
@item Xilinx Spartan XC2S50 processor.
@cindex Xilinx
@item Raw transfer of octets from framers to PCI bus.
@item Can use OpenSS7 Soft-HDLC engines for SS7, ISDN and ISO.
@item Also provides for onboard HLDC (SS7 DAEDR/DAEDT AERM/SUERM).
@item 24, 48 and 96 channels per card (T1 A101, A102 and A104).
@item 31, 62 and 124 channels per card (E1 A101, A102 and A104).
@item Full span addressable.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the A101, A102 and A104 cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Low cost.
@item PC Comaptibility.
@item Homolgomation and world-wide support.
@item Flash programmable Xilinx chip.
@item Field upgradable.
@item Supports a wide range of Open Source drivers.
@item Linux kernel WAN support.
@item Asterisk driver support.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the A101, A102 and A104 cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Cannot TDM switch on card or between cards, media channels must be transferred through host to switch between cards.
@item No integrated Ethernet for SIGTRAN and VoIP applications.
@item Synchronization per-card instead of per-system.
@end itemize

The performance limiting factor of the A101c, A102c and A104c cards is the bandwidth of the PCI bus
and the ability of the processor to perform TDM switching is software.

For the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch, this performance is more than adequate, particularly as TDM switching
is not a requirement for this pure signalling application.  Although these cards lack integrated
Ethernet support, for the non-redundant switching application, and where interworking between
SIGTRAN and SS7 is not required, this is not a limitation.

These cards have excellent price-performance and can provide 64kbps SS7 links at average incremental
interface cost of approximately $12.00 USD per signalling link.

@node Other Interface Cards
@subsection Other Interface Cards
@cindex Other interface cards

Additional interface cards could be implemented in other phases of the project.  For additional
information, @pxref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@node Platform Architecture
@chapter Platform Architecture
@cindex Platform architecture

This section details the platform architecture.  The solution platform architecture consists of the
computing platform and associated hardware, interfaces and peripherals.

@figref{13} illustrates the solution platform rack configuration.

@figure{rack,13,Rack Mount Components}

The solution platform consists of the following:

@itemize ---
@item One hardened PC (2U) chassis per system.
@item One 10/100/1000 Mblks (10/100/1000baseT) RJ-45c Layer 2 Ethernet Switch.
@end itemize

@heading Platform Capacity

The PC chassis is equipped with the following:
@footnote{For detailed sizing considerations, @pxref{Platform Sizing}.}

@menu
* HP cc3310 Based Platform::
* Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based Platform::
@end menu

@node HP cc3310 Based Platform
@section HP cc3310 Based Platform
@cindex HP cc3310

@node Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based Platform
@section Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based Platform
@cindex Dell PowerEdge 2650

@node System Architecture
@chapter System Architecture
@cindex System architecture

This section details the solution system architecture.  The solution system architecture consists of
the computing platforms and their placement within the local installation environment.

The solution system has the following requirements: 

@itemize ---
@item 19" rack
@item 110 to 220 VAC or -48 VDC electical power.
@item Commercial cooling.
@item Bantam to RJ48c patch panel.
@end itemize

@menu
* HP cc3310 Based System::
* Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based System::
@end menu

@node HP cc3310 Based System
@section HP cc3310 Based System
@cindex HP cc3310

@node Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based System
@section Dell PowerEdge 2650 Based System
@cindex Dell PowerEdge 2650

@node Logistics
@chapter Logistics
@cindex Logistics

@menu
* Schedule::
@end menu

@section Hardware

@subsection Sizing Considerations

@section Software

@section Consulting

@node Schedule
@section Schedule
@cindex schedule

@subsection Gate 0 --- Concept

@subsection Gate 1 --- High-Level Design

@subsection Gate 2 --- Detailed Design

@subsection Gate 3 --- Development and Implementation

@subsection Gate 4 --- System Test

@subsection Gate 5 --- Acceptance Testing

@subsection Gate 6 --- Support Complete

@section Cost

@node Optional Application Support
@appendix Optional Application Support
@cindex Optional application support

@section Other Solution Architecture

@subsection ISDN to ISUP Conversion

@node Optional Network Support
@appendix Optional Network Support
@cindex Optional network support

@section VoIP Switch Reference Interfaces

@node Optional Protocol Support
@appendix Optional Protocol Support
@cindex Optional protocol support

@menu
* Other Protocol Components
@end menu

@node Other Protocol Components
@section Other Protocol Components
@cindex Other protocol components

@menu
* SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) Driver::
* MTP Level 3 Broadband (MTP3b) Module::
* Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP) Driver::
* MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) Driver::
@end menu

@node SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) Driver
@subsection SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) Driver
@cindex SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) Driver
@cindex SUA

The SUA driver provides the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch with the ability to act as an SUA AS (Application
Server) in conjunction with an SUA SG (Signalling Gateway).  In this project, the SG function is
performed by existing lab equipment.  The SUA driver accepts the transport of the SCCP to SCCP-User
interface from the SG to the MGC.  The SUA driver links
@cindex SCTP
SCTP driver streams underneath it to provide the
transport services for exporting the SCCP-User interface.  The SUA driver provides the same
interfaces to its users as the OpenSS7 SCCP.

The SUA driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that runs in the Linux kernel for maximum performance.

@node MTP Level 3 Broadband (MTP3b) Module
@subsection MTP Level 3 Broadband (MTP3b) Module
@cindex MTP Level 3 Broadband (MTP3b) Module
@cindex MTP3b

@node Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP) Driver
@subsection Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP) Driver
@cindex Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP) Driver
@cindex SSCOP

@node MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) Driver
@subsection MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) Driver
@cindex MTP Level 2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) Driver
@cindex M2UA

The M2UA driver provides the OpenSS7 VoIP Switch with the ability to act as an M2UA AS (Application
Server) in conjunction with an M2UA SG (Signalling Gateway). In this project, the SG function is
performed by existing lab equipment.  The M2UA driver accepts the transport of the SL to SL-User
interface from the SG to the MGC.  The M2UA driver links
@cindex SCTP
SCTP driver streams underneath it to provide the transport
services for exporting the SL-User interface.  The M2UA driver provides the same interface to its
users as the OpenSS7 SL module.

@node Optional Software Support
@appendix Optional Software Support
@cindex Optional software support

@section Operating System Options

@section STREAMS Options

@subsection Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)

@node Optional Hardware Support
@appendix Optional Hardware Support
@cindex Optional hardware support

@menu
* Other Interface Devices::
@end menu

@node Other Interface Devices
@section Other Interface Devices
@cindex Other interface devices

This section provides information on additional interface cards available for use with the OpenSS7
SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN and VoIP stacks:

@menu
* ACB56::
* PCA 200E::
* BRI::
@end menu

@iftex
@table @asis

@item @ref{ACB56}
An EISA V.35 card.

@item @ref{PCA 200E}
A 155 MHz ATM card.

@item @ref{BRI}
An ISDN BRI card.

@end table
@end iftex

@node ACB56
@subsection ACB56
@cindex ACB56

The ACB56 cards are single V.35 56/64kbps synchronous cards manufactured by
SeaLevel Systems and distributed by ICS.
@figref{A-13} shows a picture of an ACB56 card.

@figure{acb56,A-13,ACB56}

@subsubheading Driver

The driver for the ACB56 card provides, CH, SDL or SDT access to the card.  The CH or SDL driver
places the Zilog part into transparent mode and passes octets directly off the line to the channel
or signalling data link driver.  The SDT driver places the Zilog part into HDLC mode and performs
SS7 HDLC using the Zilog SCC.  The SDT driver performs better, of course, than the CH or SDL
drivers, however, the Zilog SCC HDLC is incapable of performing some SS7 functions that are provided
by the OpenSS7 SDT (SS7-HDLC) module for the CH or SDL drivers.

@subsubheading Features

Following are some features of the ACB56 card:
@itemize
@item 1 x V.35 56kbps or 64 kbps synchronous port on DB-25 connector.
@item DB-25 to N-type cable available.
@item 56 kbps or 64kbps DTE mode.
@item 56 kbps DCE mode.
@item Based on Zilog 80585 Serial Communications Controller (SCC).
@item ISA Bus.
@item Supports dual-channel ISA DMA.
@item Also supports RS-232C although not useful for SS7.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the ACB56 card:
@itemize
@item Provides V.35 interface where necessary.
@end itemize

The ACB56 card has few advantages.  It only provides low-cost V.35 interface where absolutely
necessary.  Any other V.35 capable card might be a better choice.

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the ACB56 card:
@itemize
@item ISA bus.
@item Low density.
@item Limited number of cards per host due to ISA IRQ and DMA limitations.
@item Needs external CSU/DSU.
@item Does not support TDM voice channels.
@end itemize

Due to its disadvantages, another V.35 card (PCI based, higher density, integrated CSU/DSU) should
be considered where V.35 interface is completely necessary.

The OpenSS7 VoIP Switch does not have a requirement for V.35 interface and this card is not used on
the deployment platform.  If V.35 interface becomes a requirement at a later date, a different card
will be selected.  The selected card will have a higher density, PCI with PCI DMA and bus-mastering,
integrated CSU/DSU, and other features absent from the ACB56 card.

@node PCA 200E
@subsection PCA 200E
@cindex PCA 200E

The PCA 200E card is a 155MHz ATM card manufactured by Marconi (formerly FORE).
@figref{A-16} shows a picture of an PCA 200E card.

@figure{pca200e,A-16,PCA 200E}

The PCA 200E cards have a good level of signalling performance because they have an on-board 25MHz
i960 Intel RISC processor performing cell processing using buffer rings in the same manner as an
Ethernet controller.

@subsubheading Driver

@subsubheading Features

Following are the features of the PCA 200E cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item 155 MHz ATM, ST/SC SM/MM and RJ-45 UTP 5
@item AAL1, AAL2, AAL3 and AAL5 modes.
@item Integrated 25 MHz i960 RISC cell processor.
@item Enhance SAR Processor (ESP) ASIC
@item Special-purpose hardware for AAL5 and AAL3/4, HEC, and CRC calculations.
@item Dual-ported RAM and Buffer Ring technique similar to Ethernet Controller.
@item Serial communications emulation.
@item Supports ABR
@item ATM cell processing per ANSI T1S1.5/92-002R3, ITU I.361, ATM Form UNI v3.0, 3.1, 4.0
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the PCA 200E cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Inexpensive (about $200 a card).
@item Supports MTP3b.
@item Can support 3GPP UMTS Iu User and Control Plane over PVCs.
@end itemize

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the PCA 200E cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item Does not support traditional SS7 links.
@item Requires external ATM switch or point-to-point ATM connection.
@end itemize

@node BRI
@subsection BRI
@cindex BRI

A BRI card.

@figure{bri,A-17,BRI}

@subsubheading Driver

@subsubheading Features

Following are the features of the BRI cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@item
@item
@end itemize

@subsubheading Advantages

Following are the advantages of the BRI cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@item
@item
@end itemize

@subsubheading Disadvantages

Following are the disadvantages of the BRI cards:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@item
@item
@end itemize


@node Programmatic Interfaces
@appendix Programmatic Interfaces
@cindex Programmatic interfaces

@node Platform Sizing
@appendix Platform Sizing
@cindex Platform sizing

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
