@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2006/12/20 23:07:36 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/20 23:07:36 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: descrip.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/12/20 23:07:36  brian
@c - updates for release and current development
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/17 12:12:44  brian
@c - working up new packages
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/13 09:29:10  brian
@c - updates
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/13 07:57:35  brian
@c - added initial STREAMS Channel package
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers, libraries,
programs, init scripts, and daemons that implement the @cite{OpenSS7} @dfn{STREAMS} isochronous
channels for the purpose of implementing data transmission links, or for carrying voice or other
media, such as channelization of T1 carrier facilities, or ATM AAL3.  This package also includes
pseudo-isochronous channels such as those provided by RTP.

Included are hardware device drivers and pseudo-device drivers that provide implementations of
specific channels.  A pseudo-device driver is planned to link into the @cite{Linux} OSS (Open Sound
System) and ALS (Advanced Linux Sound).  Specific E1/T1 cards such as the V401P are supported by
this package.  Also included is an experimental driver that operates also as a Zaptel driver for the
purpose of OpenSS7/Asterisk integration (but see also the @file{NOTES} file in the release).

This package also supports data channel protocols for data communication over isochronous channels
such as HDLC and SS7 DAEDR/DAEDT/AERM/SUERM.  Upper layer link protocols, such as LAPB, LAPF, LAPM
and LLC are supported by separate packages.  These modules are provided here because they work
directly over an isochronous channel and are therefore designed to work with them.  These data links
provide support for the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS ISO/OSI} as well as the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS ISDN
Stacks} and @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SS7 Stack} packages.

This package builds and installs the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ch.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/ch} @dfn{/dev/ch_mg}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_mx.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/mx} @dfn{/dev/mx_mg}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_mg.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/mg} @dfn{/dev/mg_mg}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_pwe3.ko} module @dfn{pwe3}
@ignore
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_rtp.ko} module @dfn{rtp}
@end ignore
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_zaptel.ko} module @dfn{zaptel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_cd_hdlc.ko} module @dfn{cd_hdlc}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_cd_daed.ko} module @dfn{cd_daed}
@ignore
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_lapb.ko} module @dfn{lapb}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_lapf.ko} module @dfn{lapf}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_lapd.ko} module @dfn{lapd}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_llc.ko} module @dfn{llc}
@end ignore
@end multitable

@table @manref

@item ch(4)
The @manpage{ch(4)} multiplexing pseudo-device driver is a fully functional channel device capable
of channelized, fractional or full-span E1/T1/J1 statistically multiplexed channels.  Streams opened
on this device driver support delivery of the raw octet streams associated with the multiplexed
channel.

@item mx(4)
The @manpage{mx(4)} multiplexing pseudo-device driver is a fully functional matrix swithing device
capable of switching, performing rate adaption, echo cancellation, digital padding, conferencing,
tones, announcements, detection of tones, detection of speech, continuity tests, progress tones,
A-law/mu-law conversion, decompression/compression, comb filtering, and other functions of a digital
switching matrix.

@item mg(4)
The @manpage{mg(4)} multiplexing pseudo-device driver is a fully functional media gateway device
capable of providing conversion between Circuit Switched Network connections (via the
@manpage{mx(4)} driver) and Ephemeral RTP streams (via the @manpage{rtp(4)} module and
@manpage{udp(4)} driver).  This device also supports Media Gateway Control Protocol communications
of several forms over @manpage{tcp(4)} and @manpage{sctp(4)}.

@item pwe3(4)
The @manpage{pwe3(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over a
@manpage{tcp(4)} or @manpage{sctp(4)} Stream to provide pseudo-wire emulation end-to-end.  This
device appears as though it is a channel device.

@ignore
@item rtp(4)
The @manpage{rtp(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over a
@manpage{udp(4)} Stream to provide a full duplex, controlled (RTCP) media stream connection.  The
resulting Stream is suitable for linking under the @manpage{mg(4)} multiplexing driver to provide
Ephemeral RTP streams for use with the Media Gateway Control Protocol.
@end ignore

@item zaptel(4)
The @manpage{zaptel(4)} multiplexing pseudo-device driver is a @dfn{STREAMS} driver that provides
the historical @manpage{zaptel(4)} interface for asterisk and other open-PBX packages.
@manpage{mx(4)} streams are linked under the driver and represent spans that can be managed by
@manpage{zaptel(4)}.

@item cd_hdlc(4)
The @manpage{cd_hdlc(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that provides the capabilties of
the High-Level Data Link Control and can be pushed over a raw @manpage{ch(4)} channel to provide a
Communications Device Interface (CDI) or Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) suitable for use with
ISO/OSI protocols, X.25, ISDN or Frame Relay.

@item cd_daed(4)
The @manpage{cd_daed(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that provides th capabilities of
SS7 High-Level Data Link Control (Q.702) and can be pushed over a raw @manpage{ch(4)} channel to
provide a Communications Device Interface (CDI) or Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)
suitable for use with SS7 protocols.

@ignore
@item lapb(4)
The @manpage{lapb(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that provides the capability of the
Link Access Procedure (Balanced) and can be pushed over an @manpage{hdlc(4)} module to provide a
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) suitable for use with X.25 protocols.

@item lapf(4)
The @manpage{lapf(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that provides the capability of the
Link Access Procedure (Frame) Q.922 and can be pushed over an @manpage{hdlc(4)} module to provide a
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) suitable for use with Frame Relay, Q.932, protocols.

@item lapd(4)
The @manpage{labd(4)} module is a pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that provides the capabilities of
the Link Access Procedure (D-Channel) Q.921 and can be pushed over an @manpage{hdlc(4)} module to
provide a Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) suitable for use with ISDN, Q.931, protocols.

@item llc(4)
The @manpage{llc(4)} module is a @dfn{STREAMS} pseudo-device driver that provides the capabilites of
the Logical Link Control, ISO 8802, and provides a Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) suitable for
use with OSI protocols.  This pseudo-device driver hook into the Linux packet handling system.
@end ignore

@end table

@ignore
The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:

@table @manref

@item librtp(3)
The @manpage{librtp(3)} library provides replacements for the @cite{AT&T}
@cite{rtplib} functions.  These functions are:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .70
@item @manref{rtpopen(3)} @tab -- open an RTP channel
@end multitable

The library is incomplete.

@end table
@end ignore

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} applications for the @cite{SVR 4.2}
@dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This package is currently incomplete.  It is being released as a reference point for the community.
If you are interested in completion of this package, sponsor the OpenSS7 Project.  To sponsor the
project, contact @email{info@@openss7.com}.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

