'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_osic.1.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_osic.1.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:38  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_OSIC 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_osic
\- XAP Library OSI information compiler
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBap_osic\fP\ 'u
\fBap_osic\fP [\fB-o\fP\0\fIoutfile\fP] [\fB-v\fP] \fIfile\fP \fI...\fP
.PD 0
.HP
\fBap_osic\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBap_osic\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBap_osic\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ap_osic
command processes
.BR ap_env_file (5)
files to generate an environment initialization file that can be used by the
.BR ap_init_env (3)
function to initialize the XAP Library environment.  The
.B ap_osic
command is optional; implementations required to be portable cannot rely on
it being available on all platforms.
.PP
The format of the
.BR ap_env_file (5)
can be named on the command line.  The
.B ap_osic
command parses these files, checks them for errors, and writes the combined
initialization information for a file named
.BR ap_osi.env .
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.BR ap_osi :
.TP
.BR -o ", " --output " \fI\)outfile\fP
Write output to
.I outfile
instead of
.BR ap_osi.env .
.TP
.BR -v ", " --values
By default, the attributes named in each
.B ap_env_file
file are assigned values in a specific order regardless of the order that
they appear in that file.  This is to prevent the case where attribute
.B A
is assigned a value before attribute
.B B
when the value of
.B B
may affect the allowable values for
.BR A .
The user may override this default ordering by specifying the
.B -v
option.  If this option is used, environment attributes will be assigned
values in the same order that they apprear in the
.B ap_env_file
file or files.
.RS
.PP
The default attribute assignment order used in the absence of the
.B -v
option is:
.PP
\fC\s-1\
AP_LIB_SEL,
AP_ACSE_SEL,
AP_ROLE_ALLOWED,
AP_CNTX_NAME,
AP_SESS_SEL,
AP_BIND_PADDR,
AP_CLD_AEID,
AP_CLD_AEQ,
AP_CLD_APID,
AP_CLD_PAT,
AP_CLG_AEID,
AP_CLG_AEQ,
AP_CLG_APID,
AP_CLG_APT,
AP_DPCN,
AP_MODE_SEL,
AP_PCDL,
AP_PFU_SEL,
AP_PRES_SEL,
AP_REM_PADDR,
AP_RSP_AEID,
AP_RSP_AEQ,
AP_RSP_APID,
AP_RSP_APT,
AP_INIT_SYNC_PT,
AP_SFU_SEL,
AP_INIT_TOKENS,
AP_FLAGS,
AP_CLG_CONN_ID,
AP_CLD_CONN_ID,
AP_OLD_CONN_ID,
AP_AFU_SEL,
AP_COPYENV,
AP_DPCR,
AP_QLEN,
AP_QOS\s+1\fP
.RE
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
.B ap_osic
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
.B ap_osic
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered,
.B ap_osic
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B ap_osi.env
default output file.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The output from the
.B ap_osic
command of one XAP implementation is not necessarily readable by the
.BR ap_init_env (3)
function of another XAP implementation, as the format of the intermediate
file is not defined.  Environment initialization files are therefore only
guaranteed to be portable in the
.B ap_env_file
form.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Most diagnostic messages produced by
.B ap_osic
begin with the line number and name of the file in which the error is
detected.  If one of these conditions is detected, no output is written to
the output file.  The following error messages may occur:
.TP
Cannot open file
One of the specified input files cannot be opened for reading.
.TP
Syntax error
There is a syntax error in the
.B ap_env_file
file.  Refer to the
.BR ap_env_file (5)
manual page for a description of proper syntax.
.TP
Illegal attribute
An illegal attribute name was specified in the
.B ap_env_file
file.
.TP
Illegal value
An illegal value was assigned to an attributed in the
.B ap_env_file
file.  In addition to these errors, the
.B ap_osic
command produces a warning (below) if multiple assignments to a single
attribute are encountered.  In this case, only the first assignment is used
and a warning is written to
.I stderr
for each additional initialization value encountered for that attribute.  If
no errors are detected, output will be written to the output file.
.TP
Duplicate attribute ignored
MOre than one assignment was encountered for a single attribute.  The first
value is used.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_init_env (3),
.BR ap_env_file (5),
.BR ap_bind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.B ap_osic
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ap_osic
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI or XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP" \(rg,
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "Digital DECnet/OSI" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B ap_osic
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -h ", " -V " and " -C options.  They will not be used by portable command
scripts.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibilty with GNU coding standards (GNITS);
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.PP
See \fBAPLI\fP(3), \fBXAP\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ap_osic
first appeared in
.IR XAP .
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSION
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
