'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strconf.1.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:17:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:17:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strconf.1.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:17:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCONF 1 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strconf
\- queries stream configuration
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-t\fR|\fB--topmost\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-m\fR|\fB--module\fR} \fImodule\fR
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strconf
command is used to query the configuration of a stream.  When used without any
options, it prints a list of all the modules in the stream as well as the
topmost driver.  The list is printed with one name per line, where the first
name printed is the topmost modules on the stream and the last item printed is
the name of the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
[\fB-t\fR, \fB--topmost\fR]
Prints only the topmost module of the stream (if one exists).
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--module\fR \fImodule\fR
Determines if the specified
.I module
is present on the stream.  If the module is present, the
.B strconf
command prints the message \(lqyes\(rq
and returns a value of zero (0).  If it is not present, the
.B strconf
command prints the message \(lqno\(rq
and returns a nonzero value.
.PP
The following options are non-portable:
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the debug verbosity, typically for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
(Equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .)
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
usage
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
version
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
copyright and copying
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.PP
The
.BR -t " and " -m
options are mutually exclusive.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.B strconf
returns zero on success (for the
.BR -m " or " -t
options, \*(lqsuccess\*(rq means the named or topmost module is present).  It
returns a non-zero status if invoked with the
.BR -m " or " -t
option and the module is not present.  It prints an error message and returns
non-zero status for various error conditions, including usage error or failure
of an ioctl on the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B strconf
only operates on the stream representing standard input to the command.
.PP
If the caller does not have read permissions on the
stream and is not the superuser, the
.B strconf
command will fail.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/strconf
contains the
.B strconf
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strchg (1),
.BR strreset (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strconf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2
does not document long options.
The use of long options should be avoided by portable programs.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ", " --debug ", " --verbose " and " --quiet ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strconf
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
