@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2006/11/04 11:35:25 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/11/04 11:35:25 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: news.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/11/04 11:35:25  brian
@c - open source release of commercial package
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/29 02:02:46  brian
@c - mentioned FC5 against 2.6.18 kernel
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/27 23:58:34  brian
@c - added 2.6.18 compatibility
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/16 10:42:45  brian
@c - added new package files
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial open source release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This release
contains modules and drivers formerly only available with Commercial releases of the @file{strss7}
package and which are only recently available as open source with the release of this package.

With OpenSS7 Master Package release @file{openss-0.9.2.D}, the SIGTRAN components were separated
from the @file{strss7} package and placed in this separate package.  Not all of the SIGTRAM
components previously part of the @file{strss7} package have been strapped into this release.
Components will be revalidated against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on a module-by-module and
driver-by-driver basis.  See @file{TODO} in the release, or @refman{Schedule} for information about
the release schedule.

In this initial release the major component first available is M2PA.  @manpage{m2pa_sl(4)} is a
pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that pushed over a @manpage{sctp_n(4)} SCTP driver Stream to form an
M2PA signalling link providing the Signalling Link service interface (@manpage{sli(7)}).  A complete
test suite that tests to @file{draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2pa-07.txt} is included in the release.
The historical SS7 over IP implementations are provided, but without conformance test suites.  The
release also contains simplified AS modules for M2UA (@manpage{m2ua_as(4)}), M3UA
(@manpage{m3ua_as(4)}) that as yet do not have a conformance test suite.

Subsequent releases in 1Q 2007 will include the additional full M3UA, SUA and TUA multiplexing
drivers with conformance test suites.  The objective is to have these components publicly available
before the SIGTRAN Interoperability test even in April 2007.

@ignore
@itemize
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patchset).
@end itemize
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
