@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/31 13:37:38  brian
@c - documentation updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/16 10:42:45  brian
@c - added new package files
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_m2pa_sl.ko
@item streams_m2ua_as.ko
@item streams_m3ua_as.ko
@item streams_sdl_sctp.ko
@item streams_sdt_sctp.ko
@item streams_sdt_tpi.ko
@item streams_sl_tpi.ko
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header
@item sys/sigtran/config.h
@item sys/sigtran/version.h
@item sys/dlpi_dua.h
@item sys/dlpi_gr303ua.h
@item sys/dlpi_iua.h
@item sys/dlpi_m2ua.h
@item sys/dlpi_v5ua.h
@item sys/dua_ioctl.h
@item sys/gr303ua_ioctl.h
@item sys/iua_ioctl.h
@item sys/m2pa_ioctl.h
@item sys/m2ua_ioctl.h
@item sys/m3ua.h
@item sys/m3ua_ioctl.h
@item sys/ua_ioctl.h
@item sys/ua_lm.h
@item sys/ua_lm_ioctl.h
@item sys/v5ua_ioctl.h
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item test-sigtran
test case executable.
@item test-m2pa
test case executable.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@ignore
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end ignore
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manpage macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item bua.4
@item bua_ioctl.4
@item dl_dua.4
@item dl_gr303ua.4
@item dl_iua.4
@item dl_v5ua.4
@item dua.4
@item dua_ioctl.4
@item gr303ua.4
@item gr303ua_ioctl.4
@item isua.4
@item isua_ioctl.4
@item iua.4
@item iua_ioctl.4
@item m2ua.4
@item m2ua_as.4
@item m2ua_ioctl.4
@item m3pa.4
@item m3tp.4
@item m3ua.4
@item m3ua_as.4
@item m3ua_ioctl.4
@item SIGTRAN.4
@item sua.4
@item sua-gtt.4
@item sua_ioctl.4
@item sua-mgmt.4
@item sua-npi.4
@item sua-sccpi.4
@item sua-tpi.4
@item tali.4
@item tali_ioctl.4
@item tali-isup.4
@item tali-mtp.4
@item tali-sccp.4
@item tua.4
@item tua_ioctl.4
@item ua_ioctl.4
@item v5ua.4
@item v5ua_ioctl.4
@item m2pa.4
@item m2pa_sl.4
@item m2tp.4
@item sdl_sctp.4
@item sdt_sctp.4
@item sdt_tpi.4
@item sl_sctp.4
@item sl_tpi.4
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@item dlpi_dua.7
@item dlpi_gr303ua.7
@item dlpi_iua.7
@item dlpli_gr303ua.7
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item bua.8
@item isua.8
@item iua.8
@item m2pa.8
@item m2tp.8
@item m2ua.8
@item m3tp.8
@item m3ua.8
@item sigtran.8
@item sua.8
@item tua.8
@item uaconfd.8
@item test-m2pa.8
@item test-sigtran.8
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/sigtran
/usr/include/sigtran/sys
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/sigtran
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/sigtran/config.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/sigtran/version.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dlpi_dua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dlpi_gr303ua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dlpi_iua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dlpi_m2ua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dlpi_v5ua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/dua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/gr303ua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/iua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/m2pa_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/m2ua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/m3ua.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/m3ua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/ua_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/ua_lm.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/ua_lm_ioctl.h
/usr/include/sigtran/sys/v5ua_ioctl.h
/usr/lib
/usr/bin
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/sigtran
/usr/libexec/sigtran/send-pr
/usr/libexec/sigtran/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/sigtran/test-sigtran
/usr/libexec/sigtran/test-m2pa
/usr/libexec/sigtran/testsuite
/usr/libexec/sigtran/atlocal
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/sigtran_mknod
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/sigtran.macros
/usr/share/man/sigtran.refs
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/bua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/bua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dl_dua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dl_gr303ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dl_iua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dl_v5ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/dua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/gr303ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/gr303ua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/isua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/isua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/iua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/iua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2ua_as.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2ua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m3pa.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m3tp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m3ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m3ua_as.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m3ua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/SIGTRAN.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua-gtt.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua-mgmt.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua-npi.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua-sccpi.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sua-tpi.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tali.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tali_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tali-isup.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tali-mtp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tali-sccp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/v5ua.4
/usr/share/man/man4/v5ua_ioctl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2pa.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2pa_sl.4
/usr/share/man/man4/m2tp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sdl_sctp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sdt_sctp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sdt_tpi.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sl_sctp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sl_tpi.4
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/dlpi_dua.7
/usr/share/man/man7/dlpi_gr303ua.7
/usr/share/man/man7/dlpi_iua.7
/usr/share/man/man7/dlpli_gr303ua.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/bua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/isua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/iua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/m2pa.8
/usr/share/man/man8/m2tp.8
/usr/share/man/man8/m2ua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/m3tp.8
/usr/share/man/man8/m3ua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/sigtran.8
/usr/share/man/man8/sua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/tua.8
/usr/share/man/man8/uaconfd.8
/usr/share/man/man8/sigtran_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-m2pa.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sigtran.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/sigtran.info
/usr/share/info/sigtran.info-1
/usr/share/info/sigtran.info-2
/etc
/etc/sigtran.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/sigtran
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/sigtran.sh
/etc/modutils
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_m2pa_sl.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_m2ua_as.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_m3ua_as.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_sdl_sctp.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_sdt_sctp.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_sdt_tpi.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/sigtran/streams_sl_tpi.ko
@end ignore
