'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: $ by $Author: $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH netperf 1L ""
.SH NAME

netperf \- a network performance benchmark

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B netperf
[global options] -- [test specific options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Netperf
is a benchmark that can be used to measure various aspects of
networking performance.
Currently, its focus is on bulk data transfer and request/response
performance using SCTP, TCP or UDP, and the Berkeley Sockets
interface. In addition, tests for DLPI, and Unix Domain
Sockets, tests for IPv6 may be conditionally compiled-in.

.SS GLOBAL OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-a sizespec
Alter the send and receive buffer alignments on the local system.
This defaults to 8 bytes.
.TP
.B \-A sizespec
As -a, but for the remote system.
.TP
.B \-c [rate]
Request CPU utilization and service demand calculations for the
local system. If the optional rate parameter is specified,
.B netperf
will use that instead of calculating the rate itself.
.TP
.B \-C [rate]
As -c, but for the remote system.
.TP
.B \-d
Increase the quantity of debugging output displayed during
a test (possibly at the expense of performance).
.TP
.B \-f GMKgmk
Change the units of measure for *_STREAM tests. Capital letters are
powers of two, lowercase are powers of ten.
.TP
.B \-F fill_file
Pre-fill the send buffers with data from the named file. This is
intended to provide a means for avoiding buffers that are filled with
data which is trivially easy to compress. A good choice for a file
that should be present on any system is this manpage - netperf.man.
Other files may be provided as part of the distribution.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a usage string, and exit.
.TP
.B \-H remote_host
Set the hostname (or IP address) of the remote system.
.TP
.B \-i max,min
Set the maximum and minimum number of iterations when trying to reach
certain confidence levels.
.TP
.B \-I lvl,[,intvl]
Specify the confidence level (either 95 or 99 - 99 is the default) and
the width of the confidence interval as a percentage (default 10)
.TP
.B \-l testlen
Specify the length of the test (default 10 seconds).
A negative value sets the number of request/response transactions,
or the number of bytes for a stream test.
.TP
.B \-n numcpus
Specify the number of CPU's in the system on those systems for which
netperf has no way to find the number of CPU's programatically. 
.TP
.B \-o sizespec
Set an offset from the alignment specified with -a.
.TP
.B \-O sizespec
As -o, but for the remote system.
.TP
.B \-p portnum
Connect to a
.C netsetver
listening on the specified port, rather than using /etc/services.
.TP
.B \-P 0|1
Show (1) or suppress (0) the test banner.
.TP
.B \-t testname
Specify the test to perform.
Valid testnames are (but not always compiled-in):
.RS
.RS
.nf
.I XTI_SCTP_STREAM
.I XTI_SCTP_MAERTS
.I XTI_SCTP_RR
.I XTI_SCTP_CRR
.I XTI_SCTP_TRR
.I XTI_TCP_STREAM
.I XTI_TCP_MAERTS
.I XTI_TCP_RR
.I XTI_TCP_CRR
.I XTI_TCP_TRR
.I XTI_UDP_STREAM
.I XTI_UDP_RR
.I SCTP_STREAM
.I SCTP_MAERTS
.I SCTP_RR
.I SCTP_CRR
.I SCTP_TRR
.I TCP_STREAM
.I TCP_MAERTS
.I TCP_RR
.I TCP_CRR
.I TCP_TRR
.I UDP_STREAM
.I UDP_RR
.I SCTPIPV6_STREAM
.I SCTPIPV6_RR
.I SCTPIPV6_CRR
.I SCTPIPV6_TRR
.I TCPIPV6_STREAM
.I TCPIPV6_RR
.I TCPIPV6_CRR
.I TCPIPV6_TRR
.I UDPIPV6_STREAM
.I UDPIPV6_RR
.I DLCO_STREAM
.I DLCO_RR
.I DLCL_STREAM
.I DLCL_RR
.I STREAM_STREAM
.I STREAM_RR
.I DG_STREAM
.I DG_RR
.I LOC_CPU
.I REM_CPU
.fi
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-v verbosity
Set the verbosity level for the test (only with -P).
.TP
.B \-V
Enable the copy-avoidance features (HP-UX 9.0 and later only).

.SS TEST SPECIFIC OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h
Display a usage string based on the test name set with -t, and exit.

Please consult the netperf manual
.I 
Netperf: A Network Performance Benchmark 
(netperf.ps) for more information. Or you can join and mail to 
netperf-talk@netperf.org.

.SH BUGS 
There is a fairly large list of known defects and misfeatures in the
manual. If you think you have found a bug, please send email to Rick
Jones <raj@cup.hp.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.C netserver
.br
.I
Netperf: A Network Performance Benchmark
.br
http://www.netperf.org/

.SH AUTHORS
HP Information Networks Division - Networking Performance Team.
.br
Rick Jones	<raj@cup.hp.com>
.br
Karen Choy	HP IND
.br
Dave Shield	<daves@csc.liv.ac.uk>	(man pages)
.br
Others too numerous to mention here - see the ACKNWLDGMNTS file
