'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: netperf_arr.man,v 1.1.2.2 2005/01/25 03:41:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/25 03:41:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so netperf.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database netperf.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH NETPERF_ARR 1 "$Date: 2005/01/25 03:41:17 $" "$Name:  $" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B netperf_arr, arr_script
\-
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 8
\fBarr_script\fR\ [\fIHOSTNAME\fR\ [\fBCPU\fR]]
.HP 8
\fBnetperf_arr\fR\ [\fIoptions\fR]\ [\fIHOSTNAME\fR\ [\fBCPU\fR]]
.HP 8
\fBnetperf_arr\fR\ {\ \fB-h\fR\ |\ \fB--help\fR\ }
.HP 8
\fBnetperf_arr\fR\ {\ \fB-V\fR\ |\ \fB--version\fR\ }
.HP 8
\fBnetperf_arr\fR\ {\ \fB-C\fR\ |\ \fB--copying\fR\ }
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I
HOSTNAME
name of remote host [\fIDefault:\fR \fBlocalhost\fR]
.TP
.B
CPU
calibrate CPU [\fIDefault:\fR no]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B netperf_arr
is an OpenSS7 replacement for the
.BR arr_script (8)
that normally ships with
.BR netperf (1).
Thsi script is a
.BR bash (1)
shell script front-end to
.BR netperf (1).
.PP
.B netperf_arr
performs
xxx
tests.  It performs this test on a number of combinations of
xxx and yyy.
This test is intended as a benchmark test for
zzzz
behavior at several interesting data points.
(See
.BR netperf (1)
for more information on these tests.)
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--calibrate\fR
calibrate CPU [\fIDefault:\fR no]
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--testtime\fR=\fISECONDS\fR
duration of each test in seconds [\fIDefault:\fR 60]
.TP
\fB-H\fR, \fB--hostname\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]
add a name or address to the netserver host list
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--hostnames\fR='\fIHOSTNAME\fR[:\fIPORT\fR][ \fIHOSTNAME\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]]*'
names or addresses of netserver hosts [\fIDefault:\fR localhost]
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--numproc\fR=\fINUMPROC\fR
add a processor number to the list
.TP
\fB-N\fR, \fB--numprocs\fR=\fINUMPROC\fR[ \fINUMPROC\fR]*
specify the processor number list [\fIDefault:\fR `1']
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--rrsize\fR=[\fIREQ-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRSP-SIZE\fR]
add a request/response size pair to the list
.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--rrsizes\fR=[\fIREQ-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRSP-SIZE\fR][ [\fIREQ-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRSP-SIZE\fR]]*
specify the request/response size pair list [\fIDefault:\fR `1,1']
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--bufsize\fR=[\fISND-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRCV-SIZE\fR]
add a buffer size to the list
.TP
\fB-B\fR, \fB--bufsizse\fR=[\fISND-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRCV-SIZE\fR][ [\fISND-SIZE\fR][,][\fIRCV-SIZE\fR]]*
specify the buffer size list [\fIDefault:\fR `32768']
.TP
\fB-x\fR, \fB--xti\fR
use XTI interface instead of Sockets [\fIDefault:\fR no]
.TP
\fB+sctp\fR, \fB+s\fR, \fB+S\fR, \fB--sctp\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]], \fB--sctps\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR][ [\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]]*, \fB-sctp\fR, \fB-S\fR, \fB--nosctp\fR
activate (for XTI DEVICE) or suppress SCTP in test [\fIDefault:\fR no:/dev/sctp,/dev/sctp]
.TP
\fB+tcp\fR, \fB+t\fR, \fB+T\fR, \fB--tcp\fR=[[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]], \fB--tcps\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR][ [\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]]*, \fB-tcp\fR, \fB-T\fR, \fB--notcp\fR
activate (for XTI DEVICE) or suppress TCP in test [\fIDefault:\fR yes:/dev/tcp,/dev/tcp]
.TP
\fB+udp\fR, \fB+u\fR, \fB+U\fR, \fB--udp\fR=[[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]], \fB--udps\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR][ [\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]]*, \fB-udp\fR, \fB-U\fR, \fB--noudp\fR
activate (for XTI DEVICE) or suppress UDP in test [\fIDefault:\fR no:/dev/udp,/dev/udp]
.TP
\fB+lla\fR, \fB+l\fR, \fB+L\fR, \fB--lla\fR=[[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]], \fB--llas\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR][ [\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]]*, \fB-lla\fR, \fB-L\fR, \fB--nolla\fR
activate (for DLPI DEVICE) or suppress LLA in test [\fIDefault:\fR no:/dev/dlpi,/dev/dlpi]
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--devices\fR=[\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR][ [\fIDEVICE\fR[,\fIREMDEV\fR]]*
for compatibility with arr_script
.TP
\fB-y\fR, \fB--dry-run
do not execute but verify actions [\fIDefault:\fR run]
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
supress normal output
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
increase or set debugging verbosity [\fIDefault:\fR 0]
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [LEVEL]
increase or set output verbosity [\fIDefault:\fR 1]
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
prints this usage information and exits
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
prints the version information and exits
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
prints copying permissions and exits
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B
NETPERF_CMD
default netperf command [\fIDefault:\fR \fBnetperf\fR]
.TP
.B
NETPERF_TIME
default test case duration [\fIDefault:\fR \fB60\fR]
.TP
.B
NETPERF_PORT
default netserver port number [\fIDefault:\fR \fB12865\fR]
.TP
.B
NETPERF_SKTS
default buffer sizes [\fIDefault:\fR `\fB32768\fR']
.TP
.B
NETPERF_STATS
default statistics options [\fIDefault:\fR `\fB-i 10,2 -I 99,5\fR']
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.BR strerr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors can result from inadequate permissions, inability to locate the
.BR netperf (1)
command; failure of the
.BR netperf (1)
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
the default XTI device
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/netperf_arr
contains the
.B netperf_arr
script
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netperf (1),
.BR netserver (8),
.BR arr_script (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B netperf_arr
has no known bugs.  Report bugs to <bugs@openss7.org>.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B netperf_arr
arguments and output are consistent with
.BR arr_script (1).
.B netperf_arr
has the advantage over
.BR arr_script (1)
that it supports testing of XTI interface as well as Sockets and provides
caller access to all options.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B netperf_arr
does not conform to any standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B netperf_arr
is a replacement for the
.BR arr_script (1)
originally distributed with
.BR netperf (1).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.AU
.\"
.\"
.TI
