'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: wan.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-07-01 12:16:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 12:16:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: wan.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 12:16:22  brian
.\" - added manual pages, specs and conversion modules
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH WAN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B wan, s_wan
\- raw HDLC WAN Driver and Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
\fBint\fP \fIwan_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fIwan_device\fP, \fIflags\fP);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B WAN
is a pseudo-device driver and pushable compatibility module that provides and
interface to \fBWAN\fP Streams.  \fBWAN\fP pseudo-device driver Streams are raw
HDLC
.[
iso3309
.]
Stream that present the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR cdi (7),
service interface.
These Streams provide raw HDLC in that they perform the data encapsulation into
frames (for either asyncrhonous or synchronous operation) and perform
addressing (Address Field) using the addresses passed across the service
interface; however, elements of procedure for data link control (Control and
Information Fields) are the responsibility of the service interface user.
These Streams are of \fIcd_class\fP \fBCD_HDLC\fP and have a \fIcd_duplex\fP of
either \fBCD_FULLDUPLEX\fP or \fBCD_HALFDUPLEX\fP. (See \fBCD_INFO_ACK\fP(7).)
.PP
The \fBs_wan\fP pushable Stream module is a compatibility module that converts
a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
CDI Stream into one compatible with the service primitive interface of
Spider WAN, described under \*(lq\fIPRIMITIVES\fP,\*(rq below.  Streams with or
without the \fBs_wan\fP module pushed process the Spider WAN input-output
controls described under \*(lq\fIIOCTLS\fP,\*(rq below.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
During system initialization, the network configuration daemon and SNMP agent,
.BR xnetd (8),
opens \fBWAN\fP driver Streams and links them under a number of multiplexing
device drivers such as
.BR x25 (4),
.BR ifr (4),
and others.  \fBWAN\fP Streams are configured by the daemon and SNMP agent
input-output controls.
.PP
User-level programs or multiplexing drivers wishing a Spider WAN compatible
interface must push the \fBs_wan\fP module to be pushed onto the CDI Stream, or
must open a minor device number on the \fBWAN\fP pseuod-device driver that is
configured to
.BR autopush (8)
the
.B s_wan
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The \fBIFR\fP \fISTREAMS\fP driver was created from publicly available
documentation of the driver's operation, primarily under \fIIRIX\fP\(rg.  This
driver may not function identical to that actually present in any given Spider
WAN or \fIIRIS\fP\(rg release.  Because this driver is not normally accessed by
user-level programs and is primarily only involved in lower level system
configuration, this should not be an issue when porting application-level
programs from these environments to \fBLinux\fP.  See
\*(lq\fICOMPATIBILITY\fP,\*(rq below, for specific compatibility
considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
When the \fBs_wan\fP module is pushed, the
.BR cdi (7)
service interface is converted to be (source) compatible with the Spider WAN
service interface, see \*(lq\fICOMPATIBILITY\fP,\*(rq below.
Declarations of structures and symbolic constants necessary for this service
interface are contained in the
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/wan_proto.h
header file.
The Spider WAN (source) compatible service primitive interface is as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_primitives {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    struct wan_reg wreg;
    struct wan_sid wsid;
    struct wan_ctl wctl;
    struct wan_msg wmsg;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.B WAN_REG
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_reg {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_spare[3];
    uint32_t wan_snid;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_REG\fP.
.TP
.I wan_spare
Spare bytes for alignment, ignored by responder and set to zero by initiator.
.TP
.I wan_snid
Conveys the subnetwork identifier.
.RE
.TP
.B WAN_SID
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7).
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_sid {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_spare[3];
    uint32_t wan_snid;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_SID\fP.
.TP
.I wan_spare
Spare bytes for alignment, ignored by responder and set to zero by initiator.
.TP
.I wan_snid
Conveys the subnetwork identifier.
Equivalent to the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) of the WAN interface.
.RE
.TP
.B WAN_CTL
The primitive class consists of four primitives used to enable or disable the
WAN interface.  These primitives are equivalent to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
and
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitives of the
.BR cdi (7).
.RS
.PP
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is structured as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_ctl {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_command;
    uint8_t wan_remtype;
    uint8_t wan_remsize;
    uint8_t wan_remaddr[20];
    uint8_t wan_status;
    uint8_t wan_diag;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I wan_command
Conveys the WAN command.  This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWC_CONNECT\fP\(em'u
.B WC_CONNECT
This command is valid when sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
Fields \fIwan_remtype\fP, \fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are
significant, \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are ignored.
.TP
.B WC_CONCNF
This command is valid when sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7)
primitive.
Fields \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are significant, \fIwan_remtype\fP,
\fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are ignored.
.TP
.B WC_DISC
This command is valid when sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
All fields are ignored.
.TP
.B WC_DISCCNF
This command is valid when sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitive.
Fields \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are significant, \fIwan_remtype\fP,
\fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are ignored.
.RE
.TP
.I wan_remtype
When significant, conveys the type of the remote address.  This field may have
one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_TYPE_ASC\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_TYPE_ASC
The remote address contained in the \fIwan_remaddr\fP field consists of ASCII
characters and the length field, \fIwan_remsize\fP, conveys the length of the
ASCII address in characters (octets).
.TP
.B WAN_TYPE_BCD
The remote address contained in the \fIwan_remaddr\fP field consists of BCD
encoded digits and the length field, \fIwan_remsize\fP, conveys the length of
the BCD address in digits (semi-octets).
.PP
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.RE
.TP
.I wan_remsize
When significant, conveys the size of the remote address field,
\fIwan_remaddr\fP, in digits.  Depending on the value of the \fIwan_remtype\fP
field, this may either be octets or semi-octets.
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.TP
.I wan_remaddr
When significant, conveys the remote address.  The address contained in this
field is either represented as ASCII digits or BCD encoded digits, depending on
the value of the \fIwan_remtype\fP field.
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.TP
.I wan_status
When significant, provides the status for the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP or
\fBWC_DISCCNF\fP command.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_SUCCESS\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_FAIL
The preceding \fBWC_CONNECT\fP or \fBWC_DISC\fP command was unsuccessful.  The
link remains disconnected or connected as the case may be.
.TP
.B WAN_SUCCESS
The preceding \fBWC_CONNECT\fP or \fBWC_DISC\fP command was successful.  The
link moves to the connected or disconnected state as the case may be.
.PP
This field is only significant in the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP and \fBWC_DISCCNF\fP
primitives.
.RE
.TP
.I wan_diag
When significant and the status field is \fBWAN_FAIL\fP, provides diagnostic
information concerning the failure.
This field is only significant in the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP and \fBWC_DISCCNF\fP
primitives when failure is indicated.
.RE
.TP
.B WAN_DAT
This primitive class provides two primitives for the transfer of data across
the service interface.  Attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks contain user data.
These primitives are equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ "(7) and " CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitives of the
.BR cdi (7).
.RS
.PP
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is structured as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_msg {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_command;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_DAT\fP.
.TP
.I wan_command
Conveys the WAN command.  This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B WC_TX
Specifies that the user data in the associated
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block consists of data for transmission.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.
This primitive is issued by the WAN interface user.
.TP
.B WC_RX
Indicates that the user data in the associated
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block consists of received data.
Equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitive.
This primitive is issued by the WAN interface provider.
.RE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.TP
.B W_ZEROSTATS
Zeroes the statistics associated with the subnetwork identified by the \fIw_snid\fP field of the
argument.
.B W_ZEROSTATS
takes a pointer to a
.B wan_hdioc
or
.B wan_stioc
structure.  When the pointer points to a \fBwan_stioic\fP structure, the statistics will be
collected in the same fashion as \fBW_GETSTATS\fP immediately before zeroing the statistics.
The
.B wan_stioc
structure is defined below under \*(lq\fIW_GETSTATS\fP.\*(rq
The
.B wan_hdioc
structure is defined below under \*(lq\fIW_ENABLE\fP.\*(rq
.TP
.B W_GETSTATS
Retrieves the statistics associated with the subnetwork identified by the \fIw_snid\fP field of the
argument.
.B W_GETSTATS
takes a pointer to a
.B wan_stioc
structure into which the statistics will be collected.
.RS
.PP
The
.B wan_stioc
structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_stioc {
    uint8_t w_type;
    uint8_t w_state;
    uint8_t w_spare[2];
    uint32_t w_snid;
    hdlcstats_t hdlc_stats;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B wan_stioc
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fIhdlc_stats\fP\(em'u
.I w_type
Always \fBWAN_STATS\fP.
.TP
.I w_state
Returns the state of the HDLC link.  This is one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B HDLC_IDLE
.PD 0
.TP
.B HDLC_ESTB
.TP
.B HDLC_DISABLED
.TP
.B HDLC_CONN
.TP
.B HDLC_DISC
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I w_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.  Always set to zero by the issuer and ignored by the receiver.
.TP
.I w_snid
The subnetwork (link) identifier for which to retrieve statistics.
.TP
.I hdlc_stats
This member consists of a \fBhdlcstats_t\fP structure containing the statitics for the WAN
interface.
.PP
The
.B hdlcstats_t
structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct hstats {
    uint32_t hc_txgood;
    uint32_t hc_txurun;
    uint32_t hc_rxgood;
    uint32_t hc_rxorun;
    uint32_t hc_rxcrc;
    uint32_t hc_rxnobuf;
    uint32_t hc_rxnflow;
    uint32_t hc_rxoflow;
    uint32_t hc_rxabort;
    uint32_t hc_intframes;
} hdlcstats_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B hdlcstats_t
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fIhc_intframes\fP\(em'u
.I hc_txgood
The count of the number of frames transmitted without error.
.TP
.I hc_txurun
The count of the number of frames transmitted for which tranmitter underruns occured.
.TP
.I hc_rxgood
The count of the number of frames received without error.
.TP
.I hc_rxorun
The count of the number of frames received for which receiver overruns occured.
.TP
.I hc_rxcrc
The count of the number of frames received that contained CRC or Framing errors.
.TP
.I hc_rxnobuf
The count of the number of frames received for which no buffer could be allocated.
.TP
.I hc_rxnflow
The count of the number of frames received for which no flow control.
.TP
.I hc_rxoflow
The count of the number of frames received for which buffer overflows were encountered.
.TP
.I hc_rxabort
The count of the number of frames received which contained aborts.
.TP
.I hc_intframes
The count of the number of frames failed to be transmitted due to loss of modem signals.
.RE
.TP
.B W_SETTUNE
Sets the tunable parameters associated with the subnetwork identifier specified
in the argument.  The argument to the input-output control is a pointer to a
\fBwan_tnioc\fP structure, described below.
.RS
.PP
The \fBwan_tnioc\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_tnioc {
    uint8_t w_type;
    uint8_t w_spare[3];
    uint32_t w_snid;
    wantune_t wan_tune;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I w_type
Always \fBWAN_TUNE\fP indicating that a \fBwan_tnioc\fP structure is the
argumnent of the input-output control.
.TP
.I w_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.  Always set to zero by the user and ignored by the
provider.
.TP
.I w_snid
The subnetwork (link) identifier for which to set or retrieve tunables. 
.TP
.I wan_tune
Contains a \fBwantune_t\fP structure that conveys the tunables.
.PP
The \fBwantune_t\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct wantune {
    uint16_t WAN_options;
    struct WAN_hddef WAN_hd;
} wantune_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_options
This field is a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBTRANSLATE\fP\(em'u
.B TRANSLATE
When this bit is present, translate the remote address to an interface address
using the WAN address mapping tables.
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_hd
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_hddef {
    uint16_t WAN_maxframe;
    uint32_t WAN_baud;
    uint16_t WAN_interface;
    wancpdef_t WAN_cpdef;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_maxframe
Sets the maximum frame size (in bits).
.TP
.I WAN_baud
For asynchronous interfaces, sets the baud rate associated with the interface.
.TP
.I WAN_interface
Specifies the interface type.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B WAN_X21
.PD 0
.TP
.B WAN_V28
.TP
.B WAN_V35
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_cpdef
This field contains a \fBwancpdef_t\fP union that provides alternative settings
depending on the included type.
.PP
The \fBwancpdef_t\fP union is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef union {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    struct WAN_x21 WAN_x21def;
    struct WAN_v25 WAN_v25def;
} wancpdef_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I WAN_cptype
Determines the structure contained in the \fBwancpdef_t\fP union that is
relevant.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_V25bis\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_NONE
There is no structure contained in the union.  Only the
.I WAN_cptype
member is significant.
.TP
.B WAN_X21P
There is a \fBWAN_x21\fP structure contained in the union.  The
.I WAN_x25def
member is significant.
.TP
.B WAN_V25bis
There is a \fBWAN_v25\fP structure contained in the union.  The
.I WAN_v25def
member is significant.
.RE
.TP
.I WAN_x21def
Significant when the \fIWAN_cptype\fP member is set to \fBWAN_X21P\fP.  When
significant, this member contains a \fBWAN_x21\fP structure.
.TP
.I WAN_v25def
Significant when the \fIWAN_cptype\fP member is set to \fBWAN_V25bis\fP.  When
significant, this member contains a \fBWAN_v25\fP structure.
.PP
The \fBWAN_x21\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_x21 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    uint16_t T1;
    uint16_t T2;
    uint16_t T3A;
    uint16_t T4B;
    uint16_t T5;
    uint16_t T6;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIWAN_cptype\fP\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fBWAN_X21P\fP.
.TP
.I T1
Call request state timer.
.TP
.I T2
EOS to data transfer timer.
.TP
.I T3A
Call progress signals timer.
.TP
.I T4B
DCE provided info timer.
.TP
.I T5
DTE clear request timer.
.TP
.I T6
DTE clear configuration state timer.
.PP
The \fBWAN_v25\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_v25 {
    uint16_t WAN_cptype;
    uint16_t callreq;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIWAN_cptype\fP\(em'u
.I WAN_cptype
Always \fBWAN_V25bis\fP.
.TP
.I callreq
.RE
.TP
.B W_GETTUNE
Gets the tunable parameters associated with the subnetwork identifier specified
in the argument.  The arugment to the input-output control is a pointer to a
\fBwan_tnioc\fP structure, described under \*(lq\fIW_SETTUNE\fP,\*(rq above.
.TP
.B W_PUTWANMAP
.TP
.B W_GETWANMAP
.TP
.B W_DELWANMAP
.TP
.B W_STATUS
.TP
.B W_ENABLE
Enables the WAN interface identified by the \fIw_snid\fP field in the passed in
structure.
The argument to the input-output control is a pointer to a \fBwan_hdioc\fP
structure, described below.
.RS
.PP
The \fBwan_hdioc\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_hdioc {
    uint8_t w_type;
    uint8_t w_spare[3];
    uint32_t w_snid;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The \fBwan_hdioc\fP structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I w_type
Always \fBWAN_PLAIN\fP.
.TP
.I w_spare
Spare bytes for alignment.  Set to zero by the user and ignored by the provider.
.TP
.I w_snid
The subnetwork (link) identifier for which to enable, disable, or zero statistics.
.RE
.TP
.B W_DISABLE
Disables the WAN interface identified by the \fIw_snid\fP field in the passed in
structure.
The argument to the input-output control is a pointer to a \fBwan_hdioc\fP
structure, described under \*(lq\fIW_ENABLE\fP,\*(rq above.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B s_wan
Spider WAN compatibility module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/wan
A clone Style 2 DLPI pseudo-device driver providing access to \fBLinux\fP
devices supporting the generic HDLC.
.TP
.BI /dev/streams/wan/ n
A non-clone Style 1 DLPI pseudo-device driver providing access fo \fBLinux\fP
devices supporting the generic HDLC.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The \fBWAN\fP pseudo-device driver is compatible with DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and implementations based on Spider Frame Relay and Spider X.25, such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR Solstice \(rg,
and others, with the following portability considrations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
It appears that the Spider WAN implementation present in \fIIRIS\fP\(rg
implemented its own service interface and input output controls rather than
using a standard service interface.  Because of the widespread use of this
interface, the \fBs_wan\fP, module provides the ability to convert between the
\fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@\fP CDI,
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR cdi (7),
interface and the Spider WAN interface.  \fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@\fP multiplexing
drivers accept Stream providing the
.BR cdi (7)
interface instead of the Spider WAN interface.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibility information, see
.BR ifr (4),
.BR ifrdlci (8),
.BR ifrtune (8),
.BR mfeproto (8),
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR pvcmap (8),
.BR lltune (8),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B WAN
driver first appeared in Spider X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
