% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi et
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: xmap.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2009-03-23 11:52:05 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
% Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2009-03-23 11:52:05 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% $Log: xmap.texi,v $
% Revision 0.9.2.6  2009-03-23 11:52:05  brian
% - correction
%
% Revision 0.9.2.5  2009-03-22 09:37:44  brian
% - added MAP tables and chapters
%
% Revision 0.9.2.4  2009-03-20 18:27:39  brian
% - documentation and headers
%
% Revision 0.9.2.3  2009-03-13 11:20:24  brian
% - doc and header updates
%
% Revision 0.9.2.2  2009-03-12 15:29:57  brian
% - syntax corrections
%
% Revision 0.9.2.1  2009-03-12 14:52:32  brian
% - added XMAP documentation
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c %**start of header
@setfilename xmap.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Mobile Application Part (XMAP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* XMAP: (xmap).                 XOM Mobile Application Part
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Mobile Application Part (XMAP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
published by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}.


Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}


All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Mobile Application Part (XMAP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2009  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@subsubheading Published by:
@noindent
@uref{http://www.monavacon.com/,Monavacon Limited} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@ignore
@noindent
This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and distributed under licenses
restricting its use, copying, distribution and decompilation.  No part of this software or related
documentation may be reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written authorization of
the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.

@noindent
The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that the recipient will protect
this information and keep it confidential, and will not disclose the information contained in this
document without the written permission of its owner.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature
listed herein.
@end ignore

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@b{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@sp 1

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top XOM Mobile Application Part
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* C Language Binding::
* Description::
* Interface Functions::
* Interface Class Definitions::
* Errors::
* C Headers::
* Examples::
* License::
* Glossary::
* Index::
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Security Warning

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used
in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this
documentation including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infringement, or title; that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this document or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a
reference point for the industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces
are well defined in this release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products
conforming to the interfaces being made available.

@section Abstract

This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@section Purpose
@cpindex STREAMS

The purpose of this document is to provide technical documentation of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
This document is intended to be included with the OpenSS7 @cite{STREAMS} software package released
by @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.  It is intended to assist software developers, maintainers and users
of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} with understanding the software architecture and technical interfaces
that are made available in the software package.

@section Intent

It is the intent of this document that it act as the primary source of information concerning the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  This document is intended to provide information for writers of OpenSS7
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} applications as well as writers of OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Users.

@section Audience

The audience for this document is software developers, maintainers and users and integrators of the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The target audience is developers and users of the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.

@section Disclaimer

Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.

@section Revision History

Take care that you are working with a current version of this documentation: you will not be
notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, check the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} website for a current version.

Only the texinfo or roff source is controlled.  A printed (or postscript) version of this document
is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log: xmap.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.6  2009-03-23 11:52:05  brian
- correction

Revision 0.9.2.5  2009-03-22 09:37:44  brian
- added MAP tables and chapters

Revision 0.9.2.4  2009-03-20 18:27:39  brian
- documentation and headers

Revision 0.9.2.3  2009-03-13 11:20:24  brian
- doc and header updates

Revision 0.9.2.2  2009-03-12 15:29:57  brian
- syntax corrections

Revision 0.9.2.1  2009-03-12 14:52:32  brian
- added XMAP documentation

@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@menu
* Overview::
* Format of the Specification::
* Introductory Concepts::
* Relationship to GSM and ANSI MAP::
* Relationship to Data Abstraction Services::
* Mandatory and Optional Features::
* Packages::
* Terminology::
* Abbreviations::
@end menu

@node Overview
@section Overview

The XOM Mobile Application Part Application Programming Interface (abbreviated XMAP) defines an
Application Program Inteface (API) to mobile application services.  It is referred to as @dfn{the
interface} throughout this specification.

The interface is designed to offer services that are consistent with, but not limited to, the 3GPP
TS 29.002 and ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 standards.  These standards were published in 1997 and have
been stable for many years.

The interface is also designated to offer services that are consistent with the EIA/TIA ANSI-41D
standards for CDMA mobile networks.

All of the above standards are referred to in this document as @dfn{the Standards}.

Access to other mobile application services through the API is not prohibited, but has not been
explicitly considered.

The interface is designed to be used and implemented in conjunction with the use and implementation
of the general-purpose XOM API (reference @b{XOM}).

A brief introduction to Mobile Application Services is given in @ref{Introductory Concepts}.
Following this is an overview of OSI-Abstract-DATA Manipulation OM, which provides the Data
Abstraction service as defined in the XOM specification (reference @b{XOM}).  Then the optional features of
this specification are described, and the chapter closes with a list of abbreviations.  In all cases
the reader should refere to the Standards (reference @b{TCAP}, reference @b{GSM MAP}), or to the XOM Specification
(reference @b{XOM}) for further authoritative details.

The structure of the remaining chapters and appendices is described in the @ref{Preface}.

@node Format of the Specification
@section Format of the Specification

This specification describes a programming language-independent interface to the Mobile Application
Services together with a specific C language binding of that interface.  Several conventions are
used to identify particular items.  The general conventions are described in the @ref{Preface},
while the C language binding conventions are described in @ref{C Language Binding}.

@node Introductory Concepts
@section Introductory Concepts

@menu
* Relationship to MAP Protocols::
* XMAP and the MAP Provider::
@end menu

@node Relationship to MAP Protocols
@subsection Relationship to MAP Protocols

The interaction between mobile application programs acting in a mobile application entity role are
realized throught the exchange of mobile application service information.  The general
communications service for the mobile applications is the @dfn{Mobile Application Part}.  MAP
defines the following operations:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item @b{Service} @tab @b{Type}
@end multitable

This communication may be accomplished using the ITU-T or ANSI @dfn{Transaction Capabilities
Application Part} protocol.

@node XMAP and the MAP Provider
@subsection XMAP and the MAP Provider

The XMAP interface provides access to the MAP service provider, which offers all of the facilities
defined in the Standards.  It also provides facilities such as automatic association management and
automatic dialog handling.  The interface is designed not to restrict the services offered to those
of specific service packages of GSM MAP.

The interface defined in this specification is ``symmetrical'' in the sense that it can be used to
implement mobile application programs acting in any of the MAP producer or consumer roles (e.g, HLR,
VLR).  The interface supports:

@itemize
@item a mobile application program acting as a consumer of mobile application services.  This is
done by submitting service operation requests and receiving service operation responses.
@item a mobile application program acting as a producer of mobile application services.  This is
done by receiving service operation requests and sending back service operation responses.
@end itemize

The interface provides the ability to send @dfn{requests} on the consumer side and to receive
@dfn{indications} on the producer side within a mobile service interaction.  Furthermore, if the
service is confirmed, the producer will be able to send back @dfn{responses} that will be received
as @dfn{confirmations} by the consumer.

@node Relationship to GSM and ANSI MAP
@section Relationship to GSM and ANSI MAP

The API is essentially based on the abstract services fo the GSM MAP and ANSI MAP, but is
independent of the underlying communications stack.  The API allows the manipulation of ITU-T and
ANSI mobile application service information.  Thus this API does not preclude and does not force the
use of either the GSM MAP protocol or the ANSI MAP protocol.

The XMAP API offers two abstract mobile application service views: the one of GSM and the one of
CDMA.

The contents of GSM MAP messages are described in 3GPP TS 29.002.  These messages implicitly define
GSM MAP services.  The mapping between GSM MAP services and various service primitives and
parameters of the XMAP API are described below.

The services offered by the XMAP API are a superset of those defined both by GSM MAP and ANSI MAP.
The general communication protocol for ANSI MAP is the TCAP as specified in ANSI T1.114/2000.  The
general communication protocol for GSM MAP is the TCAP as specified in ITU-T Recommendation series
Q.771 through Q.775.

The two abstract mobile application views of XMAP (GSM MAP and ANSI MAP) are independent of the
underlying protocol.  However, the ITU-T view on top of ANSI TCAP requires that an appropriate
mapping of GSM MAP services over ANSI TCAP is widely available.

@node Relationship to Data Abstraction Services
@section Relationship to Data Abstraction Services

XMAP is dependent on standard data abstraction services to ensure portability of management software
written to the XMAP specification.  XMAP functions pass most arguments by reference.  The data
referenced by these arguments is modelled and manipulated in an object-oriented fashion.  Mobile
application data abstraction services are provided by the XOM API (reference @b{XOM}).

The definitions below introduce the various concepts that are used by Mobile Application data
abstraction services.

@table @dfn
@item Syntax
A @dfn{syntax} is the classification and representation of values in OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation.
Examples of syntaxes are @i{Boolean}, @i{Integer}, @i{Real}, @i{String(Octet)},
@i{String(Object-Identifier)} and @i{Object}.

@item Value
A @dfn{value} is a single datum, or piece of information.  A value may be as simple as a Boolean
value (for example, @i{True}), or as complicated as an entire OM object (for example, a
@i{Message}).

@item OM Attribute
An @dfn{OM attribute type} is an arbitrary category into which a specification places some values.
An @dfn{OM attribute} is an OM Attribute Type, together with an ordered sequence of one or more
values.  The OM Attribute Type can be thought of as the name of the OM attribute.

@item OM Object
An @dfn{OM object} is a collection of OM attributes.

@item OM Class
An @dfn{OM class} is a category of OM objects set out in a specification.  It determines the OM
attributes that may be present in the OM object, and details the constraints on those OM attributes.

@item Package
A @dfn{Package} is a set of OM classes that are grouped together by the specification, because tey
are functionally related (for example, GSM service package).

@item Package Closure
A @dfn{Package-Closure} is the set of classes that need to be supported to be able to create all
possible instances of all classes defined in the package.  Thus an OM Class may be defined to have
an OM Attribute whose value is an OM Obejct of an OM Class that is defined in some other package,
but within the same @dfn{Package-Closure}.

@item Workspace
A @dfn{workspace} is allocated storage that contains one or more @dfn{Package-Closures}, together
with an implementatin of the Mobile Application data abstraction services, that supports all the OM
classes of OM objects in the @dfn{Package-Closures}.

@item Descriptor
A @dfn{descriptor} is a defined data structure that is used to represent an OM Attribute Type and a
single value.  The structure has three components: a type, a syntax and a value.

@item Public Object
@dfn{Public Objects} are represented by data structures that are manipulated directly using
programming language constructs.  Use of Public Objects therefore simplifies programming by this
direct access and by enabling objects to be statically defined, when appropriate.  Programs can
efficiently access public objects.

@item Private Objects
@dfn{Private Objects} are held in data structures that are private to the service and can only be
accessed from programs indirectly using interface functions.  They are of particular use for
structures that are infrequently manipulated by programs, being passed by reference to the service,
which can then manipulate them efficiently.  An example of such objects in XMAP is the @i{session}
object.
@end table

@node Mandatory and Optional Features
@section Mandatory and Optional Features

The interface defines an Application Program Interface (API) that application programs can use to
access the functionality of the underlying Mobile Application Services.  The interface does not
define or imply any profile of that service.

Note that nothing in this specification requires that the implementation of the interface or the
Mobile Application Services itself acutally makes use of TCAP or other parts of the model, just so
long as it provides the defined service.  Also, the @emph{scope} of the Mobile Application Services
to which an application has access is not determined; it is not restricted to GSM MAP operations.

Some OM attributes are optional: these are marked @emph{(Optional Functionality)} in the OM class
definitions.  They are:

@itemize @bullet
@item @b{File-Descriptor} in a @b{Session} object.
@end itemize

Some items of behaviour of the interface and a number of aspects of the Mobile Application Services
provider are implemetnation-defined.  These are:

@itemize
@item the maximum number of oustanding asynchronous operations
@item whether an asyncrhonous function call returns before the operation is submitted to the Mobile
Application Services provider
@item the text and language of error messages
@item the OM classes permitted as values of the
@c @b{Name},
@b{Address} and @b{Title} argument to
interface functions.
@end itemize

The default values of some OM attributes on OM object @b{Session} are locally administered.

This API assumes the provision of automatic association management and automatic dialog handling by
the MAP provider.

The interface enables negotiation of the use of the various defined features of the MAP provider and
those of the interface.

@node Packages
@section Packages

The specification defines three Mobile Service packages (Common MAP package, GSM MAP package and
ANSI MAP package), @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.  These packages define the OM classes required
by the interface functions to perform GSM MAP or ANSI MAP services.  The Common MAP package, which
also includes the errors defined (@pxref{Errors}), is mandatory.  The GSM MAP package and the ANSI
MAP package are optional, but at least one of them must be supported by the implementation.  The
ITU-T service view and the ANSI service view assume the support of the corresponding GSM MAP or ANSI
MAP package by the implementation.

The use of the optional packages is negotiated using the @command{Negotiate()} function.

@node Terminology
@section Terminology

The terms @dfn{implementation-defined}, @dfn{may}, @dfn{should}, @dfn{undefined}, @dfn{unspecified},
and @dfn{will} are used in this document with the meanings ascribed to them in reference @b{XPG4},
see also @ref{Glossary}.

@node Abbreviations
@section Abbreviations

@multitable @columnfractions .1 .9
@item API @tab Application Program Interface
@item ANS.1 @tab Abstract Syntax Notation One
@item ANSI @tab American National Standards Institute
@c @item AVA @tab Attribute Value Assertion
@item BER @tab Basic Encoding Rules
@item GSM @tab Global Services Mobile
@item ISO @tab International Organisation for Standardisation
@item ITU-T @tab Internation Telecommunications Union - Telecom Sector
@item MAP @tab Mobile Application Part
@item OM @tab OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation
@item OSI @tab Open Systems Interconnect
@item ROSE @tab Remote Operations Service Element
@item TCAP @tab Transaction Capabilities Application Part
@item XMAP @tab XOM Mobile Application Part API
@item XOM @tab X/Open: OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API
@end multitable

@node C Language Binding
@chapter C Language Binding

@menu
* C Naming Conventions::
* Use and Implementtion of Interfaces::
* Function Return Values::
* Compilation and Linking::
@end menu

This chapter sets out certain characteristics of the C language binding to the interface.  The
binding specifies C identifiers for all the elements of the interface, so that application programs
written in C can access the Mobile Application Services.  These elements include function names,
@var{typedef} names and constants.  All of the C identifiers are mechanically derived from the
language independent names as explained below.  There is a complete list of all the identifiers in
@ref{C Headers}.  For ease of use, some of these identifiers are defined in the specification
alongside the language-independent name.

A @i{Function()} is indicated as shown.

A @pval{CONSTANT} is in Roman font.

The names of @perr{[ERRORS]} and other return codes are surrounded by square brackets.

The definitions of the C identifiers appear in four headers:

@ftable @b
@item <xom.h>
This header file contains definitions for the associated OM interface.
@item <xmap.h>
This header file contains common definitions for the access to the Mobile Application Part service
(see @ref{Interface Functions}, and @ref{Common MAP Package}).  A listing of this header file is
provided in @ref{xmap.h}.
@item <xmap_gsm.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Abstract Services of the GSM Mobile
Services along with the ASN.1 productions of the related protocol (GSM MAP), @xref{GSM MAP Package}.
A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_gsm.h}.
@item <xmap_ansi.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Abstract Services of the ANSI Mobile
Services allong with the ASN.1 productions of the related protocol (ANSI MAP), @xref{ANSI MAP
Package}.  A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_ansi.h}.
@item <xmap_gsm_sm.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Short Message GSM services along
with ASN.1 productions of the related services (GSM MAP Short Message services), @xref{GSM Short
Message Service Package}.  A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_gsm_sm.h}.
@end ftable

@node C Naming Conventions
@section C Naming Conventions

The interfaces uses part of the C public namespace for its facilities.  All identifiers start with
the letters map, MAP or OMAP, and more detail of the conventions used are given in the following
table.  Note that the interface reserves @emph{all} identifiers starting with the letters @var{mapP}
for private (i.e. internal) use by implementations of the interface.  It also reserves @emph{all}
identifiers starting with the letters @var{mapX} or @var{MAPX} for vendor-specific extensions of the
interface.  Application programmers should not use any identifier starting with these letters.

The OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API uses similar, thorugh not identical, naming conventions, that
are described in XOM (reference @b{XOM}).  All its identifiers are prefixes by the letters @var{OM} or
@var{om}.

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .2
@item reserved for implementors @tab @var{mapP}
@item reserved for interface extensions @tab @var{mapX}
@item reserved for interface extensions @tab @var{MAPX}
@item reserved for implementors @tab @var{OMAP}
@item @tab
@item functions @tab @var{map_}
@item error problem values @tab @var{MAP_E_}
@item enumeration tags (except errors) @tab @var{MAP_T_}
@item OM classs names @tab @var{MAP_C_}
@item OM value length limits @tab @var{MAP_VL_}
@item OM value number limits @tab @var{MAP_VN_}
@item other constants @tab @var{MAP_}
@end multitable

A complete list of all identifiers used (except those beginning @var{mapP}, @var{mapX}, @var{MAPX}
or @var{OMAP}) is given in @ref{C Headers}.  No implementation of the interface will use any other
public identifiers.  A @dfn{public identifier} is any name except those reserved in section 4.1.2.1
of the ISO C Standard, and the @dfn{public namespace} is the set of all possible public identifiers.

The C identifiers are derived from the langauage-independent names used throughput this
specification by a purely mechanical process which depends on the kind of name:

@itemize @bullet
@item Interface function names are made entirely lower-case and prefixed by @var{map_}.  Thus
@b{Service-Req()} becomes @command{map_service_req()}.

@item C function parameters are derived from the argument and result names by making them entirely
lower-case.  In addition, the names of results have @var{_return} added as a suffix.  Thus the
argument @b{Session} becomes @var{session}, while the result of @b{Result} becomes
@var{result_return}.

@item OM class names are made entirely upper-case and prefixed by @var{MAP_C_}.  Thus
@b{Service-Argument} becomes @var{MAP_C_SERVICE_ARGUMENT}.  Note that the symbolic OM class names
are strictly those used in the abstract syntax ASN.1 of the TCAP and MAP with the exception that
names containing multiple words are separated by hyphens.

@item Enumeration tags are derived from the name of the corresponding OM type and syntax by
prefixing @var{MAP_}.  The case of letters is left unchanged.  Thus @b{Enum(User-reason)}
befomes @var{MAP_User_reason}.

@item Enumeration constants, except erros, are made entirely upper-case and prefixed by @var{MAP_T_}.
Thus @b{resource-limitation} becomes @var{MAP_T_RESOURCE_LIMITATION}.

@item The name of an OM attribute is local to its OM class, that measn the same name of an OM
attribute may appear in different OM classes, for example, OM attribute @b{application-Context} is
defined in both OM classes @b{Open-Arg} and @b{application-Context-List}.  Independent-language
atribute @b{application-Context} appears as @var{MAP_APPLICATION_CONTEXT} in C-language.  Note that
the symbolic OM attribute names are strictly those used in the abstract syntax ASN.1 of the TCAP and
MAP with the exception that names containing multiple words are separated with hyphens.

@item Errors are treated as a special case.  Constants that are the possible values of the OM
attribute @b{Error-Status} of a subclass of the OM class @b{Error} are made entirely upper-case and
prefixed by @var{MAP_E_}.  Thus @b{invalid-session} becomes @var{MAP_E_INVALID_SESSION}.

@item The constants in the @b{Value Length} and @b{Value Number} columns of the OM class definition
tables are also assigned identifiers.  (They have no names in the language-independent
specification.)  Where the upper limit in on eof these columns is not ``1'' (one), it is given a
name consisting of the OM attribute name, prefixed by @var{MAP_VL_} for value length, or
@var{MAP_VN_} for value numbers.


@item The sequence of octets for each object identifier is also assigned an identifier, for internal
use by certain OM macros.  These identifiers are all upper case and are prefixed by @var{OMP_O_}.
See reference @b{XOM} for further details on the use of object identifiers.

Note that hyphens are translated everywhere to underscores.

@end itemize

@node Use and Implementtion of Interfaces
@section Use and Implementtion of Interfaces

Each of the following statements applies unless explicitly state otherwise in the detailed
descriptions that follow:

If an argument to a function has an invalid value (such as a value outside the domain of the
function, or a pointer outside the address space of the program, or a null pointer), the behvaiour
is @dfn{undefined}.

Any function declared in a header may be implemented as a macro defined in the header, so a library
function should not be declared explicitly if its header is included.  Any macro definition of a
function can be suppressed locally be encoding the name of the function in parentheses, because the
name is not then followed by the left parthesis that indicate expansion of a macro function name.
For the same syntactic reason, it is permitted to take the address of a library function even if it
is also defined as a macro.  The use of @command{#undef} to remove any macro defintion will also
ensure that an actual function is referred to.  Any invocation of a library function that is
implemented as a macro will expand to code that evaluates each of its arguments exactly once, fully
protected by parentheses where necessary, so it is generally safe to use arbitrary expressions as
arguments.  Likewise, those function-like macros described in the following sections may be invoked
in an expression anywhere a function with a compatible return type could be called.

@node Function Return Values
@section Function Return Values

The return value of a C function is always bound to the result of the language-independent
description.  Functions return a value of @type{MAP_status}, which is an error indication.  If and
only if the function succeeds, its value will be @b{success}, expressed in C by the constant
@var{MAP_SUCCESS}.  If a function returns a status other than this, then it has not updated the
return parameters.  The value of the status, in this case, is an error as described in @ref{Errors}.
In most cases the integer returned in @b{Status} is sufficient for error processing.  However, in a
few cases additional information is available if desired.

Since C does not provide multiple return values, functions must return all other results by writing
into storage passed by the application program.  Any argument that is a pointer to such storage has
a name ending with @var{_return}.  For example, the C parameter declaration @samp{OM_sint
*invoke_id_return} in the @i{Service-Req()} function indicates that the function will return an
signed integer @b{Invoke-Id} as a result, so the actual argument to the function must be the address
of a suitable variable.  This notation allows the reader to distinguish between an input parameter
that happes to be a pointer, and an output parameter where the @key{*} is used to simulate the
semantics of passing by reference.

@node Compilation and Linking
@section Compilation and Linking

All applications programs that use this interface include the @file{<xom.h>} and @file{<xmap.h>}
headers in that order, and at least one of the @file{<xmap_gsm.h>} and @file{<xmap_ansi.h>} headers.

@node Description
@chapter Description

@menu
* Services: Services Description.
* Session: Session Description.
* Context: Context Description.
* Function Arguments::
* Function Results::
* Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation::
* Other Features::
* Function Sequencing::
@end menu

The interface comprises a number of functions together with many OM classes and OM objects that are
used as the arguments and results of the functions.  Both the functions and the OM objects are based
closely on the @dfn{Abstract Service} that is specified in the Standards (references GSM MAP and
ANSI MAP).

The interface models mobile application interactions as service requests made through a number of
interface @dfn{functions}, which take a number of input @dfn{arguments}.  Each valid request causes
an @dfn{operation} within the producer which eventually returns a @dfn{status} and any @dfn{result}
of the operation.

All interactions between a Consumer and a Producer belong to a @dfn{session}, which is represented
by an OM object passed as the first argument to most interface functions.

The other arguments to the function include a @dfn{context} and various service-specific arguments.
The @dfn{context} includes a number of parameters that are common to many functions and that seldom
change from operation to operation.

Each of the components of this model is described below, along with other features of the interface
such as asynchronous function calls and security.

@node Services Description
@section Services

@menu
* Negotiation Sequence::
* Names, Addresses and Titles: Names.
@end menu

As mentioned above, the Standards define Abstract Services that Consumers and Producers use.
Each of these Absract Services maps to a single function call with the same name.  The services are
@b{Service-req} and @b{Service-rsp}.

@c FIXME more here...

These are three functions called @i{Receive()}, @i{Wait()}, and @i{Abandon()} which have no
counterpart in the Abstract Service.  @i{Receive()} is used to receive indications and results of
asynchronous operations, and is explained in @ref{Interface Functions}.  @i{Wait()} is used to
suspend execution until indications are available for specified sessions.  @i{Abandon()} is used to
abandon locally the result of a pending asyncrhonous operation.  Two additional functions
@i{Bind()}@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} and @i{Unbind()} are used to open and close a user-session.

There are also other interface specific functions called @i{Get-Assoc-Info()}, @i{Get-Last-Error()},
@i{Validate-object()}, @i{Error-Message()}, @i{Initialize()}, @i{Shutdown()} and @i{Negotiate()}.

The detailed specifications are given in @ref{Interface Functions}.
@ignore
The interface functions are summarized in Table 3.1.  Those interface functions that can execute
asynchronously are indicated by an @samp{a} in the first column.  The function @i{Cancel-req()} can
only be used asynchronously.  An @samp{s} in the second column indicates that the function addresses
the corresponding TCAP, GSM MAP or ANSI MAP service while an @samp{i} references a specific
interface service.
@end ignore

@node Negotiation Sequence
@subsection Negotiation Sequence

The interface has an initialize and shutdown sequence that permits the negotiation of optional
features.  This involves the functions @i{Initialize()}, @i{Negotiate()}, and @i{Shutdown()}.

Every application program must first call @i{Initialize()}, that returns a workspace.  This
workspace supports only the standard Common MAP package, @xref{Interface Class Definitions}.

The workspace can be extended to support either the GSM MAP or ANSI MAP package or both (see
@ref{Interface Class Definitions}, and any combination of the optional Mobile Application Services
packages), or any vendor extensions.  Vendor extensions may include additional packages, and may
also include additional or modified functionality.  All such packages or other extensions are
identified by means of OSI Object Identifiers, and the Object Identifiers are supplied to the
@i{Negotiate()} function to incorporate the extensions into the workspace.  Features defined by this
specification are described and assigned Object Identifiers in @ref{Interface Functions}.  A feature
represents any package or any additional or modified functionality that is subject to negotiattion.
The @i{Negotiate()} function allows some particular features to be made available.

After a worksapce with the required features has been negotiated in this way, the application can
use the workspace as required.  It can create and manipulate OM objects using the OM functions, and
can start one or more management sessions using @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  All the sessions on a given workspace
share the same features.

Eventually, when it has completed its tasks, terminated all is mobile application sessions using
@i{Unbind()}, and released all its OM objects using @i{OM-Delete()}, the application should ensure
that resources associated with the interface are freed by calling @i{Shutdown()}.

A miscellaneous error arises if an attempt is made to use an unavailable feature.  If an instance of
a class that is not in an available package is supplied as a function argument, the @b{bad-class}
error arises.

@node Names
@subsection Names, Addresses and Titles

To address a wide variety of mobile application transport protocols the interface is capable of
accepting various forms of object names, system addresses and program or system titles.

@itemize @bullet
@item @b{Name} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define specific
subscribers or systems responsible for producing mobile application services.

@item @b{Address} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define the
specific location to contact a particular consumer or producer of mobile services.  For example, the
SCCP-Address subclass is typically used to define the location of a producer or consumer.

@item @b{Title} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define a
specific subscriber or system name reponsible for producing mobile application services.
@end itemize

All three abstract classes participate in an implementation-specific name resolution scheme.  It is
assumed that given a @b{Name}, an implementation can determine the @b{Title} responsible for that
@b{Name}.  It is also assumed that given a @b{Title}, an implementation can determine the
@b{Address} of that @b{Title}.@footnote{Note that the way in which these relationships are resolved
is implementation-dependent, but use of SCCP Global Title translations should play a significant
role.}

The producer of an invoked operation may be explicitly designated at the interface boundary using
the following precedence rules:

@enumerate
@item A default Title or Address may be supplied as parameters to a bound ``session''.  If both
are provided, the implementation will verify that the Title resolves to the Address.
@item If automatic association management is used, a provider Title or Address may be supplied
as parameters within the ``context'' or a specific operation request.  If both are provided, the
implementation will verify that the Title resolves to the Address.  The ``context'' Title or or
Address takes precedence over the ``session'' Title or Address for unassociated session objects.
@item A consumer address may be supplied as a parameter within the ``argument'' of a specific
operation request.  The ``argument'' Address takes precedence over either the ``session'' Title or
Address or the ``context'' Title or Address.
@item If the producer of an invoked operation is not explicitly designated at the interface
boundary, the implementation will resolve the Name to the appropriate Title or Address.
@end enumerate

@node Session Description
@section Session

@menu
* AAM Enabled Session::
* AAM Disabled Session::
* Associated Session::
* ADH Enabled Session::
* ADH Disabled Session::
* Dialog Session::
@end menu

A session identifies to which mobile application entity a particular operation will be sent.  It
contains some @b{Bind-Arguments}, such as the name of the consumer.  The session is passed as the
first argument to most interface functions.

A session is described by an OM object of OM class @b{Session}.  It is created, and appropriate
parameter values may be set, using the OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation functions.  A mobile
application session is then started with @i{Bind()}@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} and later is terminated with @i{Unbind()}.  A
session with default parameters can be started by passing the constant @b{Default-Session}
(@samp{(OM_object)MAP_DEFAULT_SESSION}) as the @b{Session} argument to @i{Bind()}.

@i{Bind()} must be called before the @b{Session} can be used as an argument to any other function in
the interface.  After @i{Unbind()} has been called, @i{Bind()} must be called again if another
session is to be started.

The interface supports multiple concurrent sessions, so that an application implemented as a single
process, such as a server in a client-server model, can interact with the Mobile Application
Services using several identities; and so that a process can interact directly and concurrently with
different mobile application services.

Detailed specifications of the OM class @b{Session} are given in @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

A session can be used either acting as a consumer of mobile application services, or acting as a
producer of mobile application services, or both.

A session acn be restricted for use only with a designated program called the responder.  When the
responder is omitted and automatic association management is used, the session can be used to
exchange mobile application service information with all processes.

The responder (title and address) parameters of an opened session, if present, specifies the
producer of the requested operation.  The precedence rules on address and title of the responder are
described in @ref{Names}.

Other OM attributes (vendors' implementation extensions) may be included to specify characteristics
of the underlying protocol used.

There are three type of session objects:

@node AAM Enabled Session
@subsection AAM Enabled Session

The @b{Session} collects together all the information that described a particular management
interaction.  The parameters that are to control such a session are set up in an instance of this OM
class, which is then passed as an argument to @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This sets the OM attributes that describe
the actual characteristics of the session, and starts the session.  Such a started session can be
passed as the first argument to interface functions.

No attribute of a bound or connected session may be changed.  The result of modifying a started
session is unspecified.

Finally, @i{Unbind()} is used to terminate the sesion, after which the parameters can be modified an
a new session started using the same instance, if required.  Multiple concurrent sessions can be
run, by using multiple instances of this OM class.

A session allows a requesting program (the requestor) to exchange mobile application information
with another program designated (the responder) or by default to all programs.

An @dfn{AAM enabled} session thus allows a mobile application entity to access either a portion of
the mobile application services (that is, that are accessible via the designated responder) or all
mobile application services.  In the later case, the producer mobile application entity resolution
is performed by the Mobile Application Service provider, according to the mobile application
services invoked.

This type of session object can not be used to receive or send ACSE related primitives or
operations explicitly.  The use ACSE explicitly, see @ref{AAM Disabled Session}.

@node AAM Disabled Session
@subsection AAM Disabled Session

A session object can have Automatic Association Management disabled when it belongs to a workspace that has
Automatic Association Management disabled via @i{Negotiate()}, which allows the user to explicitly send and
receive ACSE operations to build and tear down associations.  It gives explicit control over
associations to the user.  The Mobile Application Service provider does no ACSE operations on behalf
of the user.

When the user creates and binds a session object in a workspace with AAM disabled, only the
following attributes within the session object can be specified:

@itemize
@item @i{requestor-Address}
@item @i{requestor-Title}
@c @item @i{role}
@end itemize

The session object is then passed as an argument to @i{Bind()},@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} which binds
the session.  This bound session can only be used to send ACSE related operations an to receive ACSE
related primitives.  The following can be sent/received using this type of bound session:

@itemize
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{map_receive()}/@samp{MAP_ASSOC_IND})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{map_receive()}/@samp{MAP_ASSOC_CNF})
@item @i{Assoc-req()} (@command{map_assoc_req()})
@item @i{Assoc-rsp()} (@command{map_assoc_rsp()})
@end itemize

The other attributes that relate to ACSE are specified within an @b{Assoc-Argument} or
@b{Assoc-Result} object that is passed to, or returned from, @i{Assoc-req()}, @i{Assoc-rsp()}, or
@i{Receive()}.

@node Associated Session
@subsection Associated Session

Once a user has created a bound session that has AAM disabled, an association can be created.  An
association is represented by an @dfn{associated} or @dfn{partially associated} session object.  An
@dfn{associated} session is returned as the result of building a new association.  The associated
session is used, like a bound session, by sending and receiving mobile application dialog handling
or service operations.  The major difference is that an associated session object can only be used
to send and receive operations to, or from, a single remote mobile application entity.  After a
session is associated, the user can abort the association, which implicitly unbinds the associated,
or partialyl associated, session.

The precedence rules for common parameters within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are
different for associated session objects.  Once a session is in the associated state; the
@var{responder-Address} and @var{responder-Title} cannot be overridden by the context object.

To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort the session, which implicitly
unbinds the session.  If the user unbinds the associated session prior to aborting the association,
the service provider will abort the association.

@node ADH Enabled Session
@subsection ADH Enabled Session

The ADH enabled session allows a mobile application entity to invoke and respond to mobile
application services requests and indications without regard for dialog handling.  The Mobile
Application Service provider provides all dialog handling.

This type of session cannot be used to send dialog handling primitives or operations explicitly.
To use dialog handling explicitly, see @ref{ADH Disabled Session}.

@node ADH Disabled Session
@subsection ADH Disabled Session

A session object can have Automatic Dialog Handling disabled when it belongs to a workspace that has
Automatic Dialog Handling disabled using the @i{Negotiate()} function.  This allows the user to
explicitly send and receive dialog handling operations to establish and tear down dialogs.  It gives
explicit control over dialogs to the user.  The Mobile Application Service provider does no dialog
handling operations on behalf of the user.

Once the session object is bound (AAM enabled) or associated (AAM disabled) and has ADH disabled,
the session must explicitly issue dialog handling operations for each mobile application service
request or response.  This bound or associated session can only be used to send dialog handling
primitives.  The following can be sent/received using this type of bound or associated session:

@itemize
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{map_receive()}/@samp{MAP_OPEN_IND})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{map_receive()}/@samp{MAP_ACCEPT_CNF})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{map_receive()}/@samp{MAP_REFUSE_CNF})
@item @i{Open()} (@command{map_open()})
@item @i{Accept()} (@command{map_accept()})
@item @i{Refuse()} (@command{map_refuse()})
@end itemize

The other attributes that relate to dialog handling are specified within the @b{Open-Argument},
@b{Accept-Result} or @b{Refuse-Result} objects that are passed to, or returned from, @i{Open()},
@i{Accept()}, @i{Refuse()}, or @i{Receive()}.

@node Dialog Session
@subsection Dialog Session

Once a user has created a bound or associated session that has ADH disabled, a dialog can be
created.  A dialog is represented by a @dfn{fully formed}, or @dfn{partially formed} @dfn{dialog},
session object.  A @dfn{dialog} session is returned as the result of building a new dialog.  The
dialog session is used, like a bound or associated session, by sending and receiving mobile
application service operations.  The major difference is that a dialog session object can only be
used to send and receive operations within a single dialog with a single remote mobile application
entity.  After a session forms a dialog, the user can close or abort the dialog, which returns the
session to the bound or associated state.

The precedence rules for common parameters within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are
different for dialog session objects.  Once a session has formed a dialog, the dialog related
arguments, @var{application-Context-Name}, cannot be overridden by the context object.

To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort or close the dialog, which
implicitly unbind the session.  If the user unbinds the dialog session prior to either closing or
aborting the dialog, the service provider will first attempt to close the dialog, and if that is
rejected, will abort the dialog.

@node Context Description
@section Context

The context defines the characteristics of the mobile application interaction that are specific to a
particular mobile application operation, but are often used unchanged for many operations.  Since
the parameters are presumed to be relatively static for a given user during a particular mobile
application interaction, these arguments are collected into an OM object of OM class @b{Context},
which is supplied as the second argument of each mobile application operation.  This serves to
reduce the number of arguments passed to each function.

The context includes various administrative details, such as the @i{mode} defined in the Abstract
Service, which affect the processing of each mobile application operation.  These include a number
of @i{Service Controls} and @i{Local Controls} that allow control over some aspects of the
operation.
The @i{Service Controls} include
@b{mode}, @b{responder-Address}, and @b{responder-Title}.
The @i{Local Controls} include
@b{asynchronous}, @b{reply-Limit} and @b{time-Limit}.
Each of these is mapped onto an OM attribute in the @b{Context}, and they are detailed in
@ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

The effect is as if they were passed as a group of additional arguments on every function call.  The
value of each component of the context is determined when the interface function is called, and
remains fixed throughout the operation.

The precedence rules on address and title of the responder are described in @ref{Names}.

Some of the OM attributes in the @b{Context} have default values, some of which are locally
adminstered.  The constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}) can be pased as the
value of the @b{Context} argument to the interface functions, and has the same effect as a context
OM object created with default values.  The context must be a private object, unless it is
@b{Default-Context}.

Detailed specifications of the OM class @b{Context} are given in @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

@node Function Arguments
@section Function Arguments

@menu
* Encoding and Decoding::
* Argument and Response::
@end menu

The Abstract Service defines specific arguments for each operation.  These are mapped onto
coresponding arguments to each interface function (which are aso called input parameters).  Although
each service has different arguments, some specific arguments recur in several operations; these are
briefly introduced here.  As far as the GSM MAP package is concerned, OM classes are defined with a
one-to-one mapping to the ASN.1 Abstract Syntax of GSM MAP.  Full details of these and all the other
arguments are given in the function definitions in @ref{Interface Functions}, and the OM class
definitions in @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

All arguments that are OM objects can generally be supplied to the interface functions as public
objects (i.e, descriptor lists) or as private objects.  Private objects must be created in the
workspace that was returned by @i{Initialize()}.  In some cases, constants can be supplied instead
of OM objects.

Note that wherever a function is stated as accepting an instance of a particular OM class as the
value of an argument, it will also accept an instance of any subclass of that OM class.  For
example, the @b{Service-Req} function has a parameter @b{argument}, which accepts values of OM class
@b{Service-Argument}.  Any of the subclasses of @b{Service-Argument} may be supplied as the value of
@b{argument}.

Rules for interpretation of @samp{ANY} syntax appearing in function arguments are defined in
@ref{Encoding and Decoding}.

@node Encoding and Decoding
@subsection Encoding and Decoding

XMAP specifies two alternatives for encoding and decoding of Mobile Application Packages
OM-Attribute values of type @samp{ANY}, or any OM-Attribute values in a Mobiled Application Services
package.

@enumerate
@item The encoding and decoding functionality can be provided internally with the XMAP API, without
requiring the application to invoke any encoding or decoding functions.  This option allows the
application to be free from any knowledge of encoding rules.  In this case, the OM class and
attribute type and corresponding representation are defined in a mobile application or services
package.  The XMAP API uses the package definition to attempt encoding or decoding; if automatic
decoding fails, an OM String(Encoding) is used.
@item The application can perform encoding and decoding itself.  This option gives the application
responsibility and control over the encoding and decoding of OM attributes.  In this case, all OM
attribute values appear as an OM String(Encoding).
@end enumerate

The encoding and decoding alternative to be used is negotiated through the @i{Negotiate()} function;
@xref{Negotiate}.

The XMAP API does not specify the use of OM-Encode or OM-Decode for the OM classes defined in this
specification, or in mobile application or services packages used with this specification.

To ensure interoperability, the sender and receiver must follow the same encoding rules when
converting between OM syntax and encoded syntax.  If an algorithm is used to generate OM packages,
then the algorithm must ensure that the generated OM syntax is consistent with the input abstract
syntax (that is, the same encoded values must result from applying the encoding rules to either
representation).  The encoding rules used with the GSM MAP and ANSI MAP packages defined by this
specification are ANS.1 BER.  This does not imply that other encoding rules cannot be used with
other packages defined in the future.

For the API to encode and decode the OM attribute values according to the ASN.1 standard scheme,
ASN.1 taggin information must be stored for each OM object and each OM attribute.  Thus, the package
definitions in the workspace need to incorporate the ASN.1 tagging information for each OM object
and each OM attribute definition for all Mobile Application Services packages.

As a minimum, the following requirements apply:

@itemize @bullet
@item All rules specified in ISO/IEC 8825 -- Specification of Basic Encoding Rules for Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) shall be adhered to.  Any exceptions or restrictions must be stated.
@item ASN.1 tagging information must be retained for each OM object and each OM attribute in the
Mobile Application Services packages.
@item The specified encoding and decoding scheme (and any implementation thereof) should be
extensible to accomodate the new encoding rules established subsequent to ISO/IEC 8825.
@end itemize

@node Argument and Response
@subsection Argument and Response

Most operations and notifications take an argument to specify the argument of the operation and a
response when issuing the response of the operation.  These arguments and responses are specified to
accept values of OM classes that are consistent with the abstract service view (GSM MAP or ANSI MAP)
of the current operation.

The argument for a @i{Service-req()} function is represented by an instance of the OM Class
@b{GSM-Service-Req-Argument} for a GSM MAP operation or an instance of the OM Class
@b{ANSI-Service-Req-Argument} for an ANSI MAP operation.

The reponse for a @i{Service-rsp()} function is represented by an instance of the OM Class
@b{GSM-Service-Result}, @b{GSM-Linked-Reply-Argument} @b{Service-Error} or
@b{GSM-Service-Reject} to represent the possible responses of the GSM service request operation, or
an instance of the @b{ANSI-Service-Result}, @b{ANSI-Linked-Reply-Argument} @b{Service-Error} or
@b{ANSI-Service-Reject} to represent the possible responses of the ANSI service request operation.

@node Function Results
@section Function Results

@menu
* Invoke-ID: Invoke-ID Discussion.
* Result: Result Discussion.
* Status: Status Discussion.
@end menu

All functions return a @b{Status} (which is the C function result).  Most return an @b{Invoke-ID}
which identfies the particular invocation.  The confirmed operations each return a @b{Result}.  (The
@b{Invoke-ID} and @b{Result} are returned using pointers that are supplied as arguments of the C
function).  These three kinds of function results are introduced below.

All OM objects returned by interface functions (results and errors) will be private objects in the
workspace assocaited with the session private object.

@node Invoke-ID Discussion
@subsection Invoke-ID

All interface functions that invoke a mobile application service operation return an @b{Invoke-ID};
an integer that identifies the particular invocation of an operation.  The @b{Invoke-ID} is only
relevant for asynchronous confirmed operations and may be used later to receive the @b{Status} and
@b{Result}, or to abandon them.  The @b{Invoke-ID} is also used to respond to a previously requested
confirmed operation.  Asynchronous operations are fully described in @ref{Synchronous and
Asynchronous Operation}.  The interface functions that can be used to start them are the
@i{Service-req()} function.

The numerical value of the invoke-Id returned from a call that successfully invoke an asynchronous
confirmed operation is guaranteed to be unique amoungst all outstanding operations in given session.
The value is such as could be returned from TCAP, the Transaction Capabilities Application Part
defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.771 through Q.775.  Invoke IDs used by XMAP are not necessarily
those that are actually sent via a protocol such as TCAP.  Invoke IDs may be mapped or altered by
the Mobile Application Service provider.

The value returned for a synchronous operation or an asynchronous non-confirmed operation is
unspecified, as is that for a call that fails to invoke an operation.

@node Result Discussion
@subsection Result

Functions invoking confirmed mobile application service operations return a result only if they
succeed.  All errors from these functions are reported in the @b{Status} described below, as are
errors from all other functions.

The value returned by a function call that invokes an asynchronous operation is unspecified, as is
that for a call that fails to invoke an operation.  The result of an asynchronous operation is
returned by a later call to @i{Receive()}.

The result of a function invoking a confirmed operation can be composed of a single reply, or of
multiple linked replies.  In the later case, the term @dfn{partial result} is used to designate one
of these linked replies.  Only a confirmed @b{Service-req} may produce multiple results.  Multiple
replies to a single mobile application service operation may only occur if the invoker specifies
multiple-reply in the functional unit attribute of the Session object.

In asynchronous mode, the partial results can be retrieved one at a time by subsequent calls to
@i{Receive()}, which each time returns an instance of OM class @b{Linked-Reply-Argument}.  In
synchronous mode, the function returns an instance of OM class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains a
list of sub-objects of OM class @b{Linked-Reply-Argument}.

The result (or partial result) of an operation is returned in a private object whose OM class is
appropriate to the particular operation.  The format of mobile application service operation results
is driven both by the Abstract Service and by the need to provide asynchronous execution of
functions.  To simplify processing of asynchronous results, the result (or partial result) of a
single operation is returned in a single OM obejct (corresponding to the abstract result defined in
the Standards).  The components of the result (or partial result) of an operation are represented by
OM attribute in the operation's result object.  All information contianed in the Abstract Service
result is made available to the application program.  The result (partial result) is inspected using
the functions provided in the OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API.

Only confirmed mobile application service operations produce results, and each type of operation has
a specific OM class of OM object for its result.  These OM classes are defined in @ref{Interface
Class Definitions}.

The actual OM class of the result can always be a subclass of that named, to allow flexibility for
extensions.  Thus, the function @i{OM-Instance()} should always be used when testing the OM class.

@node Status Discussion
@subsection Status

Every interface function returnes a @b{Status} value, which is either the constant @b{success}
(@samp{(MAP_status)0} or @samp{MAP_SUCCESS}) or an error.  Function call errors are represented as
integer constants and grouped in categories of System, Library and Communications as described in
@ref{Errors}.

Additional error information is available for System and Communications errors via the
@i{Get-Last-Error()} function call.  Additional error information is available for the
@b{bad-argument} Library error via the @i{Validate-object()} function call.

A synchronous call with multiple linked replies is considered successful unless the reploy limit or
time limit is exceeded.  The function returns a @b{Status} value equal to success, and the argument
@i{Result} is an OM object of OM class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains all the linked replies.

It should be noted that OM object @b{Linked-Reply-Argument} may contain an OM attribute that
reflects an error.

If the reply limit or time limit is exceeded, the synchronous call fails and returns a status of the
appropriate Library error.  However, the @i{Result} is still considered valid and may contain an
OM-Object @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains all the received linked replies.  A result of
@var{MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT} means no replies were received.

In most cases other results of functions are initialized to Null (@var{MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) if the
status does not have the value @b{success}.  However, the @i{Result} is still considered valid and
may contain an OM-Object of parital replies.  A result of @var{MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT} means no replies
were received.

@node Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation
@section Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation

The asynchronous or synchronous mode of a requested operation is specified at the interface, and
determined for each operation by the value of the OM attribute @i{Asynchronous} in the @b{Context}
passed to the interface function.  The default value of this OM attribute is @b{false}, causing all
operations to by synchronous.  Support for both synchronous and asynchronous operation is mandatory.
There is a limit to the number of pending asynchronous operations; this limit is given by the
constant @b{max-outstanding-operations}, and has a minimum value of 10.

In synchronous mode, all functions wait until the operation is complete before returning.  Thus the
thread of control is blocked within the interface after calling a function, and the application can
make use of the result immediately after the function returns.

In asynchronous mode, some functions return before the operation is complete.  The application is
then able to continue with other processing while the operation is being executed by the Mobile
Application Service provider, and can then access the result by calling @i{Receive()}.  An
application may initiate several concurrent asynchronous operations on the ame session before
receiving any of the results, subject to the limit described below.  The results are not guaranteed
to be returned in any particular order.  The functions that can execute asynchronously are the
@i{Service-req()} function.  This correponds to the mobile application services of the Standards
that operate in a confirmed mode.  Moreover, only confirmed operations return service results.

An asynchronous function call of a confirmed service returns an @b{Invoke-ID} of the operation to
the application.  The same @b{Invoke-ID} will be returned by @i{Receive()} on the corresponding
result.

An @b{Invoke-ID} is also returned by @i{Receive()} on an indication of an invoked mobile application
service operation.  The same @b{Invoke-ID} will be used to respond to this operation.

Implementations of the interface are free to return from asynchronous function calls as soon as
possible or may wait until the operation has been submitted to the unerlying Mobile Application
Service provider.  The actual policy used is implemetnation-defined.

Implementations will define a limit to the number of asyncrhonous operations that may be outstanding
at any one time on any one session.  An asynchronous operation is outstanding from the time that the
function is called until the last reply of the result is returned by @i{Receive()}, or the operation
is abandoned by @i{Abandon()}, or the session is closed by @i{Unbind()}.  The limit is given by the
constant @b{max-outstanding-operations} (@samp{MAP_MAX_OUTSTANDING_OPERATIONS}) and is at least 10
for conformant XMAP implemetnations.  While this number of operations is outstanding, attempts to
invoke further asynchronous operations will report a @b{Library-Error} (too many operations).

Asynchronous operation calls can be aborted by executing an @i{Abandon()} or @i{Unbind()} call.  In
this case, the operation is no longer outstanding and the result  will never be returned by further
@i{Receive()} function calls.

If an error is detected before an asynchronous request is submitted to the Mobile Application
Service provider, the function will return immediately and there will be no outstanding operation
generated.  Other errors are notified later by @i{Receive()}, when the result of the outstanding
asynchronous confirmed operation is returned.  All errors occurring during a synchronous request are
reported when the function returns.  Full details of error handling are given in @ref{Errors}.

Where vendors provide suitable system primitives (such as System V @manref{poll(2)}, or BSD
@manref{select(2)}), applications can obtain a file descriptor from the @b{Session} by inspecting
the value fo the OM attribute @i{File-Descriptor}.  Applications may use the file descriptor to
suspend the process until data is received on the particular file descriptor.

Applications should ensure that there are no outstanding asynchronous operations on a session when
@i{Unbind()} is called on that session.  Once @i{Unbind()} has been called there is no way to
determine whether any outstanding operations succeed or even whether they were ever sent to the
Mobile Application Service provider.  Also no errors or results of any kind will be reported to the
application.  It is strongly recommended that @i{Receive()} is called repeatedly until
@b{Completion-Flag} takes the value @b{nothing}.

@node Other Features
@section Other Features

@menu
* Automatic Association Management::
* Automatic Dialog Handling::
* Automatic Performer Resolution::
* Responder Versatility::
* Automatic Name to Address Resolution::
* Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack::
@end menu

These features are not part of the interface itself, but are mandatory when specified by the Mobile
Application Service provider.

The Mobile Applications are not restricted to those defined by GSM MAP.

All the features listed below are for the most part necessary for ease of use in a mobile
application environment.  These features are classified as given registered identifiers (Object
Identifier).  They can be negotiated using the @i{Negotiate()} function in the same manner as
packages.  Other types of information that are critical in servicing an environment that incudes
implemetnation from multiple vendors on various machines can also be classified and handled with
the @i{Negotiate()} function.  Features defined by this specification are described and assigned
Object Identifiers in @ref{Interface Functions}.

@node Automatic Association Management
@subsection Automatic Association Management

When the Mobile Application Services provider makes use of association oriented communication services,
such as TCAP, the Mobile Application Service provider implementations are assumed to provide
automatic handling of the association between mobile application entities, establishing
and releasing associations at its discretion.  Such management is intended to bring
benefits such as reduced communication charges.  To allow this flexibility to the implementation,
the interface does not specify when communication takes place.  Automatic Association Management
(AAM) may be enabled or disabled on a per-workspace basis using the @i{Negotiate()} function. 

@node Automatic Dialog Handling
@subsection Automatic Dialog Handling

When the Mobile Application Services provider makes use of dialog oriented communication services,
such as that provided by TCAP, the Mobile Application Service provider implementations are assumed
to provide automatic handling of dialogs between mobile application entities, establishing and
releasing dialogs at its discretion.  Such management is intended to bring benefits such as reduced
communication overheads.  To allow this flexibility to the implementation, the interface does not
specify when communication takes place.  Automatic Dialog Handling (ADH) may be enabled or disabled
on a per-workspace basis using the @i{Negotiate()} function.@footnote{Note that Automatic Dialog
Handling is an independent concept from Automatic Association Management.}

@node Automatic Performer Resolution
@subsection Automatic Performer Resolution

The performer of an invoked operation my be explicitly designated by the responder name and
responder address parameters of the bound session used.

However, in the case where the responder is specified as a wildcard, the Mobile Application Service
provider may be assumed to provide automatic mobile application service and application context to
consumer resolution: to find out the consumer that is in charge of the selected mobile application
service specified in the mobile application service operation.

@node Responder Versatility
@subsection Responder Versatility

Responder versatility is the ability to change the consumer within a same bound-session at each
function call.  It is useful when the automatic consumer resolution is either not suported by the
Mobile Application Service provider or note requested.  This applies if the underlying Mobile
Application Service provider is connection-less.

@node Automatic Name to Address Resolution
@subsection Automatic Name to Address Resolution

Mobile Application Service provider implementation may provide automatic resolution between program
name and address to find the network address of a mobile application entity from its name using
directory or translation services.

@node Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack
@subsection Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack

The Mobile Application Services provideer implementation may provide a loop back facility if the
destination of the operation or notification is local.  It also may provide routing of the
mobile application services operation to the proper underlying communications stack according to the
implied mobile application service and the destination (for example over a ITU-T SCCP stack or an
ANSI SCCP stack).

@node Function Sequencing
@section Function Sequencing

A minimum set of sequencing rules applies when using the interface to exchange mobile application
service information between mobile application programs acting as a mobile application entity.
These rules need to be respected by mobile application programs to ensure that interface
functions are called in the proper sequence and that the state of the interface is not violated,
otherwise @b{Library-error} status will be returned.@footnote{Note the following is considered as
tutorial information.  The definitive information is contained in the Standards (see referenced
documents).}

The general rules to follow are:

@enumerate
@item Initialize a workspace (@samp{map_initialize()})
@item Negotiate features of the interface (@samp{map_negotiate()})
@item Open one or several sessions (@samp{map_bind()})
@item Perform mobile application service interactions (operations) using the offered interface
functions.  An interaction is identified by its @b{Invoke-Id}.
@item Close the opened sessions (@samp{map_unbind()})
@item Discard the workspace (@samp{map_shutdown()})
@end enumerate

Seven states are defined in the interface to cover both interface service operations and mobile
application service interactions:


@table @var
@item UNINIT
Workspace uninitialized.
@item INIT
Workspace initialized.
@item UNBND
Session closed.
@item BND
Session opened.
@item IDLE
Outstanding operatoin requested in a mobile application service interaction.
@item OUTOP
Operation indication received in a mobile application service interaction.
@item OPIND
@end table


@node Interface Functions
@chapter Interface Functions

@menu
* Abandon(): Abandon.
* Abort(): Abort.
* Abort-req(): Abort-req.
* Accept(): Accept.
* Assoc-req(): Assoc-req.
* Assoc-rsp(): Assoc-rsp.
* Bind(): Bind.
* Close(): Close.
* Error-Message(): Error-Message.
* Get-Assoc-Info(): Get-Assoc-Info.
* Get-last-error(): Get-last-error.
* Initialize(): Initialize.
* Issue(): Issue.
* Negotiate(): Negotiate.
* Open(): Open.
* Receive(): Receive.
* Refuse(): Refuse.
* Release-req(): Release-req.
* Release-rsp(): Release-rsp.
* Service-req(): Service-req.
* Service-rsp(): Service-rsp.
* Service-parameter(): Service-parameter.
* Shutdown(): Shutdown.
* Unbind(): Unbind.
* Validate-object(): Validate-object.
* Wait(): Wait.
@end menu

@node Abandon
@section Abandon()

@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abandon} -- abandon locally the result of a pending asynchronous operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_abandon(
        OM_private_object  session,
        OM_sint32          invoke_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function abandons the result of an outstanding asynchronous function call.  The function is no
longer outstnading after this function returns, and the result (or the remaining results in case of
multiple linked replies) will never be returned by @i{Receive()}.

@i{Abandon()} may, but need not, cause the Mobile Application Service provider to abandon the
outstanding asyncrhonous operation itself (as opposed to simply discarding the result).  Note that
the specified behaviour is a local mater, and no statement is made about underlying mobile
application service operations that may or may not be abandoned.

This function can only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application esessino in which the confirmed operation was requested.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}

@item Invoke-ID (Integer)
Selects the specific outstanding asynchronous operation submitted via the @b{Session} to be
termianted.  The outstanding operation may be a non-confirmed service.  In that case the abandon is
without effect.  The value of @b{Invoke-ID} must be that which was returned by the function call
that initniated the asyncrhonous management operation that is now to be abandonned.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the abandon function succeeded.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-session, bad-procedural-use, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

Note that the abandon function is successful even if the operation to be abandonned does not exist
(any longer) or is not confirmed.  The abandon is then without effect.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and @perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE]}.
@end table

@page
@node Abort
@section Abort()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abort} -- Abort Association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_abort(
        OM_private_object  session,
        OM_private_object  context,
        OM_object          argument
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialogue handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the MAP dialogue
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialogue handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to abort a mobile application session that is either associated or partially
associated.  The service is defined as an unconfirmed service: a reply is not expected.

Once an abort is issued, the associated session is implicitly disassociated and unbound.  All
outstanding requests that pertain to this session are returned with the error session-terminated.
This includes any @i{Wait()} request on that session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The associated (or partially associated) session against which this operation is perfomed.  This
must be a private object previously returned as part of an @b{Accept-Result} or @b{Open-Argument},
or returned explicitly from an asyncrhonously called @i{Open()}.  This session object must have AAM
disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The management context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private object.  Once
a session is connected or partially connected, the precedence rules for common parameters within the
@b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are different.  Once connected, the responder address and
responder title cann not be overriden by the @b{Context} object.  (See also @ref{Names}.)
@item Argument (Object(Abort-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of an @b{Abort} operation.  (See @ref{Abort-Argument}.)
@end table
@item RESULTS
As this function is not confirmed, there are no results returned.
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-edceeded.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and @perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-U-ABORT} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Abort-req
@section Abort-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abort-req} --- abort a mobile application association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_abort_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to abort a mobile application session that is either associated or partially
associated.  The service is defined as an unconfirmed service.  A reply is not expected.

Once an abort request has been issued, the associated session is implicitly disassociated and
unbound.  All outstanding requests that pertain to this session are returned with the error
@var{session-terminated}.  This includes any @i{Wait()} requests on that session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The associated (or partially associated) session against which this operation is performed.  This
must be a private object previously returned as part of an @b{Assoc-Result} or @b{Assoc-Argument},
or returned explicitly from an asynchronously called @i{Assoc-req()}.  This session object must have
AAM disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.

Once a session is associated or partially associated, the precedence rules for common parameters
within the @b{Session} and @b{Context} objects are different.  Once associated, the
@var{responder-Address} and @var{responder-Title} cannot be overridden by the @b{Context} object.
@item Response (Object(Abort-Result))
The information supplied as the response of an @b{Abort} operation.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the operation was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@end table

@page
@node Accept
@section Accept()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Accept} --- accept an indicated mobile application open operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_accept(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               response,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id,
        OM_private_object      *connected_session_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialogue handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the MAP dialogue
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialogue handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to accept a previously indicated @b{Open} operation.  This function can only
be called in syncrhonous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Accept-Result))
The information supplied in acceptance of the previously indicated @b{Open} operation.
This is an instance of OM class @b{Accept-Result}, indicating that the open indication is to be
accepted.  The user provides negotiated ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider.  A newly formed dialog object is returned in the @b{Accept-Result} object, so this is an
in/out parameter to this function.  The new @b{Session} object represents a fully formed dialog
session.
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog to which the reply applies.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have
been returned from a call to @i{Receive()} for the corresponding association that is being accepted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Accept} response was completed.
@item Connected-Session (Object(Session))
When successful, this function returns a newly connected session object.  The returned @b{Session}
object is in a connected state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE parameters for the new
association.

It is not specified whether the association has been formed by the underlying Mobile Application
Service provider at the time that this function returns.  The underlying Mobile Application Service
might wait until a @i{Issue()} function call before fully forming the association.  Nevertheless,
the association is considered to be in the ``connected'' state from the standpoint of the interface.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-OPEN} response primitive (with a parameter indicating
acceptance) of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Assoc-req
@section Assoc-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Assoc-req} --- establish mobile application association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_assoc_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object  *result_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the establishment of a mobile application association.  The service
is defined as a non-confirmed service.  No reply is expected.

This operation may only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This session must also have AAM
(Automatic Association Management) disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.
@item Argument (Object(Assoc-Argument))
The information supplied as an argument of an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is an @b{Assoc-Argument}
object with optional ACSE information contained within it.  An associated @b{Session} object is
returned in the Result of this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the action was completed.
@item Result (Object(Assoc-Result))
Upon successful completion, when the @b{Assoc-req} has been accepted/rejected by the Mobile
Application Service provider, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} Object is returned.
This @b{Assoc-Result} object either contains information as to why an association was rejected, or
contains a @b{Session} object in an associated state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE
parameters for the new association.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This functoin can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-argument, bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated, reply-limit-exceeded,
time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Assoc-rsp()}.@footnote{@xref{Assoc-rsp}.}
@end table

@page
@node Assoc-rsp
@section Assoc-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Assoc-rsp} --- reply to a requested association operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_assoc_rsp(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response,
        OM_sint32           assoc_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to reply to a previously invoked @var{Assoc} operation.

This function can only be called in syncrhonous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is performed.
This must be a private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.
This must be a private object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Assoc-Result))
The information supplied as a response to an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When an association is accepted, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is given as the
response.  The user provides negotiated ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider, and also indicates that the association is to be accepted by setting the
@var{assoc-Result} attribute to @b{accept}.  A newly associated session object is returned in the
@b{Assoc-Result} object, so this is an in/out parameter to this function.  The new @b{Session}
object is in an associated state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE parameters for the new
association.
@item When an association is to be rejected, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is given
as a response.  The @b{Assoc-Result} should have the @var{assoc-Result} attribute set to either
@b{reject-permanent} or @b{reject-transient}.  The @var{assoc-Diagnostic} can also optionally be set
to indicate why the reject has occurred.
@end itemize
@item Assoc-ID (Integer)
The @b{Assoc-ID} of the requested operation to which the reply applies.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or note the @b{Assoc} response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
Ths function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Assoc-req()}.@footnote{@xref{Assoc-req}.}
@end table

@page
@node Bind
@section Bind()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Bind} --- open a mobile application session.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_bind(
        OM_object           session,
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_private_object  *bound_session_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function opens a mobile application session.  It creates a @b{Session} OM object describing the
session suitable for supplying to other XMAP functions.  A session must be opened before any
mobile application service interactions can take place.

If the OM attribute @b{requestor-Title} is specified, only one unconnected session can be opened
with the same value of the OM attribute.  There can be multiple connected or partially connected
session objects with the same @b{requestor-Title}.

To allow for the implementation of automatic association management, it is undefined as to whether
@i{Bind()} causes any communication with the remote management entity.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
Specifies a program together with other details of the service required.  This argument may be
either a public object or a private object.  The constant @b{Default-Session}
(@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_SESSION}) may also be used as the value of this argument, causing a new session to
be created with default values for all its OM attributes.
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Sepcifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}) which is to be associated with
the session.  All function results from mobile application operations using this session will be
returned as private objects in this workspace.  If the Session argument is a private object, it must
be a private object in this workspace.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function completed successfully.
@item Bound-Session (Object(Session))
Upon successful compltion, contains an instance of a mobile application session that may be used as
an argument to other functions (e.g. @i{Service-req()}).  This will be a new private object if the
value of @b{Session} was @b{Default-Session} or a public object, otherwise, it will be that supplied
as an argument.  In the later case, the session provided should not be already in use.  The function
will supply default values for any of the OM attribute that were not present in the @b{Session}
instance supplied as an argument.  It will also set the value of the @b{File-Descriptor} OM
attribute (the value will be @b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor} (@samp{MAP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}) if
the functionality is not supported).

When AAM is disabled with @i{Negotiate()}, any session bound using @i{Bind()} is unconnected and may
only be used to receive and send ACSE-related primitives, (i.e. it cannot be used for Mobile
Application Service operations).
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-address,
bad-session, bad-title, miscellaneous, not-supported, too-many-sessions.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Unbind()},@footnote{@xref{Unbind}.}
@i{Negotiate()}.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}
@end table

@page
@node Close
@section Close()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Close} --- terminate a mobile application association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_close(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               argument
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the termination of a mobile application association.  The service
is defined as an unconfirmed service.  No reply is expected.

This operation may only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The connected session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private object
previously returned as part of an @b{Accept-Result} or @b{Open-Argument}.  This session object must
have AAM diabled, and it must be in a connected state.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.

Once a session is connected or partially connected, the precedence rules for common parameters
within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are different.  Once connected, the responder
address and title cannot be overridden by the @b{Context} object.
@item Argument (Object(Close-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of a @b{Close} operation.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the operation was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abort()}.@footnote{@xref{Abort}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-CLOSE} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Error-Message
@section Error-Message()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Error-Message} --- return an error message describing a particular error.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

OM_sint map_error_message(
        MAP_status          error,
        OM_sint             length,
        unsigned char      *error_text_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function returns an error message string that describes the error.  The caller provides a
buffer-address and buffer-length argument.  The error message is stored in the client's buffer.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Error (Status)
@item Length
The length of the buffer.  The error text buffer is an unsigned character array.  This is necessary
if the intent is to support NLS (the X/Open Native Language System).
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Error-text (String)
A message describing the error.  The error message text is terminated by a NUL character.

The error message text will be truncated if the length of the error-text-buffer is less than the
length of the error message text.
@item Length (Integer)
Indicates the length of the returned mesage.  If the @b{length} parameter is 0 or the
@b{*error_text_return} parameter is NULL, then the @b{length_return} value indicates the amount of
buffer space required to host the error message.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function returns no errors.  (A default error message reports faulty arguments or other
problems).
@end table

@page
@node Get-Assoc-Info
@section Get-Assoc-Info()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Get-Assoc-Info} --- retrieve negotiated association values.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_get_assoc_info(
        OM_private_object       receive_result_or_argument,
        OM_uint                 request_mask,
        OM_uint                 result_mask,
        OM_public_object        *pres_layer_args,
        OM_public_object        *acse_args,
        OM_public_object        *map_assoc_args
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function returns the negotiated association values corresponding to an incoming
@i{Result-Or-Argument} object previously supplied by @i{Receive()}.  The caller provides a
@b{request_mask} to identify which values are to be returned in result objects.

This function may be used with automatic association management enabled or disabled or with
automatic dialog handling enabled or disabled.  In any case, the values returned are those
associated with the underlying association or dialog within which the incoming
@i{Result-Or-Argument} arrived.
@ignore
In connectionless environments, the values returned are those associated with the incoming
@b{receive-result-or-argument} message (for example, @b{Responder-Address}).
@end ignore

Certain reqeusted values may not be available for the input object (that is, inappropriate for the
underlying protocol) and may therefore be absent from the result.  The values actually returned are
indicated by the function result.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Result-Or-Argument (Object(*))
This object contains an asynchronous response or indication, as previously returned to the user from
the @i{Receive()} function.
@item Request-Mask (Integer)
The @b{request-mask} indicates which association values should be returned as result objects.  The
mask is composed of bit values that must be set @emph{on} (@samp{1}) to request that the
corresponding association value be returned.  Association values that can be obtained by calling
this function are:
@itemize @bullet
@c @item presentation-context-layer
@c @item responder-address
@c @item responder-title
@c @item application-context
@c @item authentication-information
@c @item acse-user-info
@c @item CMIS-functional-units
@c @item access-control
@c @item user-info
@c @item SMASE-user-data
@item presentation-Context-List
@item responder-Address
@item responder-Title
@item application-Context
@c @item security-Context
@c @item authentication-Information
@item application-Context-List
@item version-List
@end itemize
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Result-Mask (Integer)
A mask indicating which association values have been returned as part of the result objects below.
This mask has the same structure as the @i{Request-Mask} argument.  All bits @emph{off} (@samp{0})
indicates no values were available for the input object.
@item Pres-Layer-Args (Object(Presentation-Layer-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when one of the following @b{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{MAP_T_PRESENTATION_CONTEXT_LIST}
@end itemize
Otherwise, @perr{[MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT]} is returned for this object.
@item Acse-Args (Object(Acse-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when one of the following @b{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{MAP_T_RESPONDER_ADDRESS}
@item @samp{MAP_T_RESPONDER_TITLE}
@item @samp{MAP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT}
@c @item @samp{MAP_T_SECURITY_CONTEXT}
@c @item @samp{MAP_T_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION}
@end itemize
Otherwise, @perr{[MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT]} is returned for this object.
@item Map-Assoc-Args (Object(Map-Assoc-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when the one of the following @b{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{MAP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT_LIST}
@item @samp{MAP_T_VERSION_LIST}
@end itemize
otherwise, @perr{[MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT]} is returned for this object.
@ignore
@item Standard-Externals (Object(Standard-Externals))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the @b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when the
@b{Result-Mask} bit @samp{MAP_T_SMASE_USER_DATA} is set on; otherwise, @perr{[MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT]} is
returned for this object.
@end ignore
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@end table

@page
@node Get-last-error
@section Get-last-error()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Get-last-error} --- retrieve secondary return code of the most recent function call
Communications or System error.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_get_last_error(
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_uint32          *additional_return_error
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to return additional error information related to the last function call that
returned a status of:
@itemize
@item @perr{[MAP_E_COMMUNICATIONS_PROBLEM]}
@item @perr{[MAP_E_BROKEN_SESSION]}
@item @perr{[MAP_E_INVALID_CONNECTION_ID]}
@item @perr{[MAP_E_SYSTEM]}
@end itemize
The returned integer value is implementation dependent.

In a multiple thread environment where there are multiple XMAP function calls, additional error
information is stored in the workspace of the invoking call on a thread basis.  The
@command{map_get_last_error} call must be invoked from the same thread.

For most XMAP function calls, the Workspace anchor to store additional information is dervied from
the @samp{bound_session}.  For @i{Bind()} and @i{Wait()}, the workspace parameter on the calls is
used.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
The workspace (obtained from a prior call to @i{Initialize()} of the function call that had the
status error.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function call completed.
@item Additional-Error (Integer)
The secondary integer related to the last function call that returned a Communications or System
error.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]} or
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]}.
@end table

@page
@node Initialize
@section Initialize()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Initialize} --- initialize the interface.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

OM_workspace map_initialize(
        void
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function performs any necessary initialization of the interface and allocates a workspace.  It
must be called before any other mobile application interface functions are called.  It may be called
multiple times, in which case each call returns a workspace that is distinct from other workspaces
created by @i{Initialize()} but not yet deleted by @i{Shutdown()}.
@item ARGUMENTS
None.
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Upon successful completion, contains a handle to a workspace in which OM objects can be created and
manipulated.  Objects created in this workspace, and only such objects, may be used as arguments to
the other management interface functions.  This function returns NULL if it fails.
@end table
@item ERRORS
None.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Shutdown()}.@footnote{@xref{Shutdown}.}
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_workspace workspace;

if ((workspace = map_initialize()) == NULL) {
	exit(1);
}
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Issue
@section Issue()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Issue} --- issue pending service requests and responses.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_issue(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialogue handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage MAP dialogues
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabed on a session, this dialogue hanglin function
is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to issue pending mobile application service requests and responses.  The
function can only be called in synchronous mode.

When an @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()} or @i{Refuse()} function is called, the underlying Mobile
Application Service provider might not issue the corresponding TCAP transactions immediately, but
may wait for the accumulation of mobile application service requests or responses to combine with
the dialogue.  The @i{Issue()} function tells the underlying Mobile Application Service provider to
release pending dialogue handling primitives with the service requests and responses currently
accumulated.

One typical order of dialogue handling function calls would be as follows:
@itemize
@item @i{Bind()} --- bind the session.
@item @i{Open()} --- open the dialogue.
@item @i{Service-req()} --- generate one or more service requests.
@item @i{Issue()} -- issue pending dialogue handing and accumulated service requests or responses.
@item @i{Service-req()} --- generate one or more service requests.
@item @i{Close()} --- close the dialogue (also issuing any pending dialogue handling and accumulated
service requests or responses).
@end itemize
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a
private object previously reutrned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog to which the reply applies.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have
been returned from a call to @i{Receive()} for the corresponding association for which pending
service requests and responses are being issued.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Issue} request was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-DELIM} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Negotiate
@section Negotiate()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Negotiate} --- negotiate features of the interface and service.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_negotiate(
        MAP_feature         feature_list[],
        OM_workspace        workspace
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function negotiates features of the interface; each feature is represented as an Object
Identifier.  Several features are defined and registered within this specification.  Features may
also include mobile application services packages, vendor extensions, and new features defined in
future versions of this specification.  Features can be negotiated after a workspace has been
initialized, and can be renegotiated any time until the workspace is discarded.  Note that all
sessions on a given workspace share the same features. 
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Feature-List (Feature-List)
An ordered sequence of features, each represented by an object identifier and a request value.  The
request value can contain one of the following values: Activate, Deactivate, Query State, and Query
Supported.

The sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no components (a length of zero and a
value of the data pointer in the C representation).  The response value is returned upon completion
of the Negotiate invocation.

In the C binding, the Feature-List argument is a single array of structures of type
@type{MAP_feature}, which is defined as:

@smallexample
@verbatim
#define MAP_ACTIVATE            0
#define MAP_DEACTIVATE          1
#define MAP_QUERY_STATE         2
#define MAP_QUERY_SUPPORTED     3

typedef struct {
        OM_object_identifier    feature;
        OM_sint                 request;
        OM_boolean              response;
} MAP_feature;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

The following Features are defined and registered by this specification:
@itemize
@item @b{Mobile Application Packages} @*
The GSM Mobile Application package and the ANSI Mobile Application package are specified in
@ref{Interface Class Definitions}.  Additional Mobile Application packages may be sepcified in the
future.
Note that multiple Mobile Application Packages can be activated within the same workspace.

@item @b{Automatic Association Management} @*
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the underlying protocol
associations(s) (if any); refer to @ref{Automatic Association Management}.
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1)
private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) common(1)
automatic-association-management(1) @}}.
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @samp{MAP_AUTOMATIC_ASSOCIATION_MANAGEMENT}.
Automatic Association Management is enabled by default.

@item @b{Automatic Dialog Handling}
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the unerlying protocol dialog(s)
(if any); refer to @ref{Automatic Dialog Handling}.
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1)
private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) common(1)
automatic-dialog-handling(2) @}}.
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @samp{MAP_AUTOMATIC_DIALOG_HANDLING}.

@item @b{Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding and Decoding} @*
This feature provides for automatic encoding and decoding of OM class and attribute types using
ASN.1 BER;refer to @ref{Encoding and Decoding}.  The Object-Identifier associated with this feature
is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
xom-packages(1) xmap(1) common(1) automatic-decoding(3) @}}.
This Object-Identifier is reprsented by the constant @samp{MAP_AUTOMATIC_DECODING}.
Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding and Decoding is enabled by default.

@end itemize

Mobile Application Services packages are also negotiated as part of the Feature-List.  Mobile
Application Services packages may be defined by the OpenSS7 Project, by standards organizations or
consortia, by vendors, or by users.

Registerd Object Identifiers representing future features and vendor extensions may also be included
in the Feature-List for negotiation.
@item Workspace
The handle to the workspace for which features are negotiated.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Whether or not the function completed successfully.
@item Response (Boolean-List)
If the function completed successfully, this result contains an ordered list of Boolean values, with
the same number of elements as the Feature-List.  The significance of the values is shown as
follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .5
@item @b{Request} @tab @b{Response} @tab @b{Meaning}
@item Activate @tab True @tab Activated
@item @tab False @tab Cannot activate feature (or the feature is not supported).
@item Deactivate @tab True @tab Deactivated
@item @tab False @tab Cannot deactivte feature (or the feature is not supported).
@item Query-state @tab True @tab Activated
@item @tab False @tab Deactivated (or the feature is not supported).
@item Query-supported @tab True @tab Supported
@item @tab False @tab Not supported
@item Invalid @tab True @tab Cannot be returned
@item @tab False @tab Invalid argument
@end multitable
In the C binding, this result is combined with the Feature-List argument as a single array of
structures of type @type{MAP_feature} as defined above.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or @b{Library-Error} ``miscellaneous''.

This function does not return a @b{Communications-Error}, nor any mobile application errors.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and @perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE]}.
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
MAP_status status;
OM_workspace workspace;
int i;

workspace = map_initialize();

MAP_feature feature_list[] = {
	{MAP_COMMON_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {MAP_GSM_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {MAP_GSM_SM_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {MAP_GSM_LS_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {MAP_GSM_IN_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {MAP_GSM_CH_PKG, MAP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {NULL, 0, 0}
};

if ((status = map_negotiate(feature_list, workspace)) != MAP_SUCCESS)
	exit(1);

for (i = 0; i < 6; i++)
	if (!feature_list[i].response)
		exit(1);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Open
@section Open()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Open} --  Resquest estblishment of a Mobile Application Services association (dialogue).
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_open(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_obect        context,
        OM_object               argument,
        OM_private_object       *result_return,
        OM_sint32               *dialog_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the creation of a mobile application entity association (dialogue).
The service is defined as a confirmed service: a reply is expected.

This operation may be called in asyncrhonous mode.  Note that when operating in this mode, results
may not only be locally discarded (when @b{Abandon()} is used), as may be done with outer
asynchronous calls.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This session must also have ADH
(Automatic Dialog Handling) disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.
@item Argument (Object(Assoc-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is an @b{Assoc-Argument}
object with optional ACSE information contained within it.  When called asynchronously, a partially
connected @b{Session} object is returned in the Result of this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
If the function is called syncrhonously, the value @b{success} indicated that the action was
completed.  If called asyncrhonously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the results is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When the @i{Open} request has been accepted by the remote peer, one instance of the OM class
@b{Accept-Result} Object is returned.  This @b{Accept-Result} object contains a @var{session}
attribute that returns a @b{Session} object for which a dialog has been fully formed.  The
@b{Accept-Result} object also contains the final negotiated dialog parameters for the new
dialog.
@item When the @i{Open} request has been refused by the remote peer, one instance of the OM class
@b{Refuse-Result} Object is returned.  This @b{Refuse-Result} object contains information as to why
the dialog was refused.  No @var{session} attribute is present in this result and no dialog session
is formed.
@item When the @i{Open} request has been aborted by the remote peer or by the provider, one instance
of the OM class @b{Abort-Argument} is returned.  This @b{Abort-Argument} object contains information
pertaining to the abort.  No @var{session} attribute is present in this result and no dialog session
is formed.
@end itemize
Upon successful completion of an asynchronous call, a partially formed dialog @b{Session} object is
returned in the @i{Result}.

@table @b
@item Note:
The original @b{Session} object passed to this function is unaffected and still remains in
the bound or associated state.  This session object can still be used in additional concurrent
@i{Open()} or @i{Receive()} function calls.
@end table
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The returned @b{Dialog-ID} of the management operation when used asyncrhonously.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad argument, bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated, reply-limit-exceeded,
time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abort()},@footnote{@xref{Abort}.}
@i{Assoc-rsp()},
@i{Accept()},@footnote{@xref{Accept}.}
@i{Refuse()}.@footnote{@xref{Refuse}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-OPEN} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Receive
@section Receive()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Receive} --- get the argument of an operation or retrieve the (partial) result of an
asynchronously executed operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_receive(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_sint            *mode_return,
        OM_sint            *primitive_return,
        OM_sint            *completion_flag_return,
        MAP_status         *operation_status_return,
        OM_private_object  *result_or_argument_return,
        OM_sint32          *invoke_or_dialog_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to retrieve the argument of an invoked operation and to retrieve a partial
result (linked reply) or the completed result of a previous asynchronous operation.

The function results include two status indications.  One, called @b{Status}, indicates that the
function call itself was successful; it is always returned.  The other, called @b{Operation-Status},
is used to return the status of the completed asynchronous operation, and is only returned if there
is one.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The moble application session against which this mobile application operation is performed.  This
must be a private object previously returned from @i{Bind()},@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} or a connected
or partially connected session object returned from @i{Open()},@footnote{@xref{Open}.}
@i{Accept()},@footnote{@xref{Accept}.} or @i{Receive()}.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Takes an error value if one of the library errors or system errors listed below occurred during
execution of this function.  Takes the value @b{success} (@samp{MAP_SUCCESS}) if this function
returned successfuly.
@item Primitive (Integer)
The mobile application service primitives (@samp{MAP_SERVICE_IND}, @samp{MAP_SERVICE_CNF}).

The MAP association service primitves (@samp{MAP_OPEN_IND}, @samp{MAP_ACCEPT_CNF},
@samp{MAP_REFUSE_CNF}, @samp{MAP_DELIM_IND}, @samp{MAP_CLOSE_IND}, @samp{MAP_ABORT_IND},
@samp{MAP_P_ABORT_IND}).

Determines the operation of this result or argument.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{completed}, @b{incoming} or
@b{partial}.
@item Mode (Integer)
This indicates the mode of an indication.  When @b{confirmed} (@samp{MAP_T_CONFIRMED}) the invoked
operation has to be confirmed, a reply is expected.  When @b{non-confirmed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NON_CONFIRMED}), the requested service is not to be confirmed.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{incoming}.
@item Completion-Flag (Integer)
This flag indicates the statue of the received data, if any.

@table @asis
@item @b{completed}
(@samp{MAP_COMPLETED}) @*
This flag indicates that a @emph{final} response has been received.  For mobile application
primitives this may be the confirmation for a service request or the last confirmation of a linked
reply.  In the latter case, the @b{Result-Or-Argument} parameter will be the @b{Absent-Object}.
@item @b{incoming}
(@samp{MAP_INCOMING}) @*
An indication has been received.
@item @b{nothing}
(@samp{MAP_NOTHING}) @*
There are no indications or confirmations to receive.  Further, there are no outstanding
asynchronous requests.
@item @b{outstanding}
(@samp{MAP_OUTSTANDING}) @*
There are no indications or confirmations to receive.  There are still outstanding requests, but no
confirmations have yet arrived.
@item @b{parial}
(@samp{MAP_PARTIAL})
A confirmation has been received which is part of a linked reply.  This is used for all but the last
in a series of linked replies.  (See completed, above.)
@end table
This result is only valid if @b{Status} has the value @b{success}.  In that case, the validity of
the other results is given as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .1 .1 .1 .1 .1
@item Completed @tab yes(1) @tab no @tab yes @tab yes(1) @tab yes
@item Incoming @tab yes @tab yes @tab no @tab yes @tab yes
@item Nothing @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no
@item Outstanding @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no
@item Partial(3) @tab yes(1) @tab no @tab yes @tab yes(1) @tab yes
@end multitable
@item Operation-Status (Status)
Takes an error value if a communications error occurred during the execution of the asynchronous
operation, and @b{success} (@samp{MAP_SUCCESS}) otherwise.  The possible error values are listed for
each individual operation in the corresponding function description.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{completed} or @b{partial}.
@item Result-or-Argument (Object(*))
This object contians the results of an asynchronous request, or information about an indication.
The class of object received is dependent upon the values of the @b{Primitive} and
@b{Completion-Flag} parameters.  The following table for the three applicable @b{Completion-Flag}
values.  The actual class returned is dependent on the value of @b{Primitive}.
@table @asis
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{completed}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Service-Result @tab @samp{MAP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Service-Error @tab @samp{MAP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Service-Reject @tab @samp{MAP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Accept-Result @tab @samp{MAP_ACCEPT_CNF}
@item Refuse-Result @tab @samp{MAP_REFUSE_CNF}
@item Absent-Object @tab All confirmations.
@end multitable
Note that @b{Absent-Object} may be returned in two cases:
@enumerate
@item The confirmation contains no data.
@item As the terminator of a linked reply list.  In this case, the @b{Invoke-or-Dialog-ID} parameter
can be used to determine which linked reply has been terminated.
@end enumerate
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{incoming}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Service-Argument @tab @samp{MAP_SERVICE_IND}
@item Open-Argument @tab @samp{MAP_OPEN_IND}
@item Close-Argument @tab @samp{MAP_CLOSE_IND}
@item Abort-Argument @tab @samp{MAP_ABORT_IND}
@end multitable
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{partial}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Linked-Reply-Argument @tab
@end multitable
@end table
For @b{Completion-Flag} values of @b{completed} or @b{partial}, the @b{Result-or-Argument} parameter
is valid only if the @b{Operation-Status} contains the value @b{success}.  The parameter is not
valid for @b{Completion-Flag} values of @b{nothing} or @b{outstanding}.
@item Invoke-or-Dialog-ID (Integer)
The Invoke-ID or Dialog-ID of the operation whose error, result or argument is being returned.

This result is only valid of the @b{Status} has the value @b{success} and @b{Completion-Flag} has
the value @b{completed}, @b{partial} or @b{incoming}.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, session-terminated, time-limit-exceeded.

This function does not report any @b{Communication-Errors}, in its @b{Status} result.  (Any such
errors related to the completed asynchronous operation is reported in @b{Operation-Status}, as
described above.)

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@end table

@page
@node Refuse
@section Refuse()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Refuse} --  refuse an indicated association operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_refuse(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               response,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialogue handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the MAP dialogue
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialogue handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to refuse a previously indicated @b{Open} operation.  This function can only
be called in syncrhonous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Refuse-Result))
The information supplied in refusal of the previously indicated @b{Open} operation.
This is an instance of OM class @b{Refuse-Result}, indicating that the open indication is to be
refused.  The user provides alternate ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider.  The @b{refuse-Reason} and @b{diagnostic-Information} can be set to indicate why the
reject occured.
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog to which the reply applies.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have
been returned from a call to @i{Receive()} for the corresponding association that is being accepted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Refuse} response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-OPEN} response primitive (with a parameter indicating
refusal) of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Release-req
@section Release-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Release-req} ---
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_release_req(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@end table
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Release-rsp
@section Release-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Release-rsp} ---
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_release_rsp(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@end table
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Service-req
@section Service-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-req} --- request mobile appliction service.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_service_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object  *result_return,
        OM_sint32          *invoke_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request mobile application service.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which this operation is performed.  THis must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).

The service may be requested in a confirmed mode or a non-confirmed mode.  In confirmed mode, a
reply is expected.
@item Argument (Object(Service-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of a mobile application service request is an instance of a
subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Argument}.  Normally, concrete subclasses of this class are
defined in Mobile Application Services packages.  For example, the @b{MO-Forward-SM-Arg} subclass of
@b{Service-Argument} is defined in the GSM Short Message Services package
(@pxref{MO-Forward-SM-Arg}) and may be used as an argument to this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
If the function is called synchronously, the values @b{success} indicated that the action was
completed.  If called asynchronously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a syncrhonous coall, when the operation was requested in a confirmed
mode, the result is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When the service is requested in a non-confirmed mode, no results are expected and the constant
@b{Absent-Object} (@samp{MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) is returned as the result.
@item When a confirmed mode services is requested, this is indicated by on instance of the OM class
@b{Service-Result}, or @b{Service-Error},
or when multiple replies are provided, an instance of OM
class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains a set of instances of the OM class
@b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument}.  Each @b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument} contains exactly one of
the following OM attributes:
@itemize ---
@item service-Result
@item service-Error
@item processing-Failure
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item Invoke-ID (Integer)
The @b{Invoke-ID} of the initiated mobile application service operation when invoked asynchronously.
It is significant in the case of a confirmed mode request only.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous not-supported, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abandon()},@footnote{@xref{Abandon}.}
@i{Service-rsp()}.@footnote{@xref{Service-rsp}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-XXX} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Service-rsp
@section Service-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-rsp} --- reply to a requested mobile application service operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_service_rsp(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response,
        OM_sint32           invoke_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to reply to a previously invoked confirmed mobile application service
operation.  This function can only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The mobile application session against which the operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The mobile application context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{MAP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(*))
The information supplied as response to an @b{service} operation.  The response is one of the
following:
@itemize
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Result} as the response.
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Error} as the response,
including the problem cause and its associated parameter that may be returned. @xref{Service-Error}.
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Reject} including the problem
cause and its associated parameter may be returned: duplicate-invocation, mistyped-argument,
resource-limitation, unrecognized-operation.
@item When a service request requires multiple responses, this is indicated by one or more
@i{Service-rsp()} calls, once for each response, followed by a final ``empty'' @i{Service-rsp()}.
Each @i{Service-rsp()} call includes a response that contains an instance of a concrete subclass of
OM class @b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument}, containing exacly one of the following OM attributes:
@itemize ---
@item @var{service-Result}
@item @var{service-Error}
@item @var{processing-Failure}
@end itemize
The final ``empty'' @i{Service-rsp()} call includes a response that contains only the constant
@b{Absent-Object} (@samp{MAP_ABSENT_OBJECT}).
@end itemize
For more details about the OM classes and OM attributes mentioned above, refer to @ref{Interface
Class Definitions}.
@item Invoke-ID (Integer)
The @b{Invoke-ID} of the requested operation to which the reply applies.  This is the @b{Invoke-ID}
that was returned from a call to @i{Receive()} that indicated the service request to which this
service response corresponds.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the action response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-error, bad-linked-reply, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation,
not-supported, session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Receive()},@footnote{@xref{Receive}.}
@i{Service-req()}.@footnote{@xref{Service-req}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-XXX} response primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Service-parameter
@section Service-parameter()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-parameter} -- 
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_xxx(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@item RESULTS
@item ERRORS
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-PARAMETER} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Shutdown
@section Shutdown()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Shutdown} --- delete a workspace and the associated resources.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_shutdown(
        OM_workspace    workspace
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function deletes a workspace established by @i{Initialize()}@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.} and
all the associated resources.  It may enable the service to release resources.

All the remaining opened sessions are closed, all the remaining OM objects are deleted, and the
workspace is deleted.

No other function may reference the specified workspace after it has been deleted.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}) which is to be deleted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Inidcates whether or not the shutdown function succeeded.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Initialize()}.@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.}
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_workspace workspace;
MAP_status status;

if ((workspace = map_initialize()) == NULL)
	exit(1);

/* perform functions within the workspace */

if ((status = map_shutdown(workspace)) != MAP_SUCCESS)
	exit(1);
exit(0);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Unbind
@section Unbind()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Unbind} --- unbind from a mobile application session.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_unbind(
        OM_private_object   session
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function terminates the given mobile application session, and makes the argument unavailable
for use with other interface functions (except @i{Bind()}).

Note that this means the results of any outstanding asynchronous operations that were intiiated
uinsg the given @b{Session} can no longer be received.  Any such operations may be terminated
prematurely.  For this reason it is recommended that all outstanding asynchronous operations are
processed using @i{Receive()} before @i{Unbind()} is called.

The unbound session may be used again as an argument to @i{Bind()} possible after modification by
the XOM functions (reference @b{XOM}).  When it is no longer required, it must be deleted using the
XOM functions.

The @b{Library-Error} ``session-terminated'' will be returned as the error value to a synchronous
function call using the terminated session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The management session that is to be unbound.  This must be a private object previously returned by
@i{Bind()}.  The value of the @b{File-Descriptor} OM attribute will be @b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor}
(@samp{MAP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}) if the function succeeds.  The other OM attributes will be
unchanged.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Takes the value @b{success} if @b{Session} was unbound, and take an error value if not.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-session, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

This function does not return a @b{Communications-Error} or any mobile application errors.

This function can return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@end table

@page
@node Validate-object
@section Validate-object()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Validate-object} --- analyze OM-Object and return Bad-Argument details if necessary.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_validate_obejct(
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_object           test_object,
        OM_private_object  *bad_argument_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to analyze any OM-Object to validate its structure.  It may be used as a debug
tool prior to issuing other XMAP function calls.  It may also be used after XMAP function calls that
return @perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}.

It is not the intention of this function to be able to validate all OM objects in all packages.  Its
purpose is to validate only those primary OM objects that may be validly passed as arguments to
function defined in this specification.

This function is not intended to validate private objects, only client or service generated public
objects.  When passed a private object, provided that the private object is of a known OM class,
success will be returned.  That is, the function does not analyze the contents of a private object.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Test-Object (Object(*))
The OM-Object to analyze and validate.
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}, in which @b{Bad-Argument} OM
object will be created if the return status is @perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}.  Test-Objects does not
need to be from this workspace.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the validation was successful.  A value of @perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}
indicates a validation failure and problem details are in the @b{Bad-Argument} parameter.
@item Bad-Argument (Object(Bad-Argument))
When Status is @perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}, the result is one instance of the OM class
@b{Bad-Argument}.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return the error constants
@perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]},
@perr{[MAP_E_SYSTEM]} or
@perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}.
@item EXAMPLE
Following is a @samp{C} binding example of validating a user-generated public object from the GSM
MAP Short Message services package:
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_object argument = {
    OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, MAP_C_MO_FORWARD_SM_ARG)
    , {MAP_SM_RP_DA, OM_S_OBJECT, {
        OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, MAP_C_SM_RP_DA)
        , {MAP_IMSI, MAP_S_TBCD_STRING, OM_STRING("\x21\x43\x65\x87")}
        , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
      } }
    , {MAP_SM_RP_OA, OM_S_OBJECT, {
        OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, MAP_C_SM_RP_OA)
        , {MAP_NO_SM_RP_OA, OM_S_NULL, NULL}
        , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
      } }
    , {MAP_SM_RP_UI, OM_S_OCTET_STRING, (OM_string) {data_length, data_pointer} }
    , {MAP_IMSI, MAP_S_TBCD_STRING, OM_STRING("\x21\x43\x65\x87")}
    , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
};
MAP_status status;
OM_private_object bad_argument;

status = map_validate_object(workspace, argument, &bad_argument);

if (status == MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT)
    exit(1);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Wait
@section Wait()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Wait} --- wait for the availability of manaement message(s) from one or more bound Sessions.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xmap.h>

MAP_status map_wait(
        MAP_waiting_sessions    bound_session_list[],
        OM_workspace            workspace,
        OM_uint32               timeout
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to suspend the caller until a mobile application operation is available for a
bound Session.  A timeout value specifies the maximum number of milliseconds to suspend before
returning when no messages are available.  It should be noted that, in a multithreaded environment,
@i{Wait()} may report the presence of a message that will have been processed by another thread by
the time the first thread call @i{Receive()} to process it.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Bound_session_list (Bound-Session-List)
An ordered sequence of mobile application sessions to wait upon.  The last value must evaluate to
NULL.
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}, in which a @type{MAP_status}
object will be created if the return status is other than @perr{[MAP_SUCCESS]}.  Session(s)
specified in the @b{bound-session-list} do no need to be from this workspace.
@item Timeout (Integer)
The maximum number of milliseconds to suspend before returning when there are no messages from the
list of Session(s).  A value of zero specifies an indefinite timeout.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function completed successfully.  A successful completion means that
either a message is available from a Session or that the timeout limit has been reached.  The
@i{Receive()} function must be called to determine whether a message is available.  (See note in
description above.)
@item Activated (Boolean-List)
If the function was completed successfully, this result is an ordered list of Boolean values, with
the same number of elements as the @b{bound-session-list}.  If true, each value indicates that the
corresponding Session has data waiting in queue.  If false, each valud indicates that the
corresponding Session does @emph{not} has data waiting in queue.

In the C binding, this result is combined with the @b{bound-session-list} argument as a single array
of structures of type @type{MAP_waiting_sessions}, which is defined as:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        OM_private_object   bound_session;
        OM_boolean          activated;
} MAP_waiting_sessions;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-address, bad-session,
bad-workspace, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]},
@perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and @perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE]}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Initialize()},@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.}
@i{Receive()},@footnote{@xref{Receive}.}
@i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item EXAMPLE
Following is a @samp{C} language binding example of using the @i{Wait()} function in conjunction
with the @i{Receive()} function to process indications or confirmations:
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
MAP_waiting_sessions bound_session_list[] =
    { {session, OM_FALSE} , {NULL,} };

for (;;) {
    if ((status = map_wait(bound_session_list, workspace, 0)) != MAP_SUCCESS)
        exit(1);
    if (bound_session_list[0].activated) {
        OM_sint mode;
        OM_sint primitive;
        OM_sint completion_flag;
        MAP_status operation_status;
        OM_private_object result;
        OM_sint32 received_invoke_id;

        if ((status = map_receive(session, &mode, &primitive, &operation_status,
                            &result, &received_invoke_id)) != MAP_SUCCESS)
                exit(1);
        /* process received result */
        om_delete(result);
    }
}
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@node Interface Class Definitions
@chapter Interface Class Definitions

@menu
* Global Class Hierarchy::
* Common MAP Package::
* GSM MAP Package::
* GSM MAP Services Packages::
* ANSI MAP Package::
* ANSI MAP Services Packages::
@end menu

This chapter defines, in alphabetical order, the OM classes that constitute the Common MAP package
(COMMON), the GSM Mobile Application package (GSM) and the ANSI Mobile Application package (ANSI).
The common errors are defined in the Common MAP package, while the variant specific errors are
defined in the GSM MAP and ANSI MAP packages.

The Object-Identifier associated with the Common MAP package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) common(1) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{Common-Package} (@samp{MAP_COMMON_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated with the GSM MAP package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) gsm(2) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{GSM-Package} (@samp{MAP_GSM_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated wtih the ANSI MAP package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) ansi(3) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{ANSI-Package} (@samp{MAP_ANSI_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated wtih the GSM MAP Short Message Service package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xmap(1) gsm(2) sm(22) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{GSM-SM-Package} (@samp{MAP_GSM_SM_PKG}).

The XMAP API may also make use of Mobile Application Services packages.  These optional packages
define OM classes that are additional to those in the Mobile Applicatoin packages, to extend the
capabilities of the interface.

The concepts of OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation are briefly described in @ref{Relationship to Data
Abstraction Services}.  The notation is introduced below.  Both are fully explained in the XOM
Specification (see reference XOM).

Each OM class is described in a separate section, which identifies the OM attributes specific to
that OM class.  The OM classes are listed in alphabetic order; the OM attributes for each OM class
are listed in the order in which they occur in corresponding ASN.1 definitions.  The OM attributes
that may be found in an instance of an OM class are those OM attributes specific to that OM class
and those inherited from each of its superclasses.  The OM class-specific OM attributs are defined
in a table.  The table gives the name of each OM attribute, the syntax of each of its values, any
restrictions upon the length (in bits, octets (bytes), or characters) of each value, any
restrictions upon the number of values, and the value, if any, the @i{OM-Create()} function
supplies.

@subheading Vendor Extensions

Vendors may provide additional OM attributes in their implementation of particular OM classes and
their individual documentation will give details of the specification and usage of these.
Extensions must be negotiated through use of the @i{Negotiate()} function.

All such OM attributes have default values which lead to the behaviour described in this
specification.

@node Global Class Hierarchy
@section Global Class Hierarchy

@menu
* Interface Common Objects::
* Interface Common Error Definitions::
* GSM MAP Package Objects::
* ANSI MAP Package Objects::
@end menu

This section depicts the hierarchical organizatino of the OM classes defined in this chapter, and
thus shows which OM classes inherit additional OM attributes from their superclasses.
Subclassification is indicated by indentation, and the names of abstract OM classes are rendered in
italics.  Thus, for example, the concrete class @b{Itut-SCCP-Address} is an immediate subclass of the
abstract class @i{Address} which in turn is an immediate subclass of the abstract class @i{Object}.
The @i{Create()} function applies to all concrete OM classes.

The application is not permitted to create or modify instances of some OM classes, because these OM
classes are only returned by the interface and never supplied to it (for example, some subclasses of
@i{Error}).

@node Interface Common Objects
@subsection Interface Common Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@itemize ---
@item @b{Abort-Argument}
@c @item @i{Access-Control}
@itemize ---
@c @item @b{Community-Name}
@c @item @b{External-AC}
@end itemize
@item @b{Acse-Args}
@item @i{Address}
@itemize ---
@c @item @b{Presentation-Address}
@c @item @b{Network-Address}
@end itemize
@item @b{Assoc-Argument}
@c @item @b{Assoc-Diagnostic}
@item @b{Assoc-Information}
@item @b{Assoc-Result}
@c @item @b{Authentication-Information}
@c @item @b{Authentication-Other}
@c @item @b{AVA}
@c @item @b{Cmip-Assoc-Args}
@item @b{Context}
@item @b{Extension}
@c @item @b{Functional-Unit-Package}
@c @item @i{Name} (definition imported from Directory Services: see reference @b{XDS})
@itemize ---
@c @item @b{DS-DN}
@item @b{SNMP-Object-Name}
@c @item @b{Name-String}
@end itemize
@item @b{Presentation-Context}
@item @b{Presentation-Layer-Args}
@c @item @i{Relative-Name} (defintion imported from Directory Services: see reference @b{XDS})
@itemize ---
@c @item @b{DS-RDN}
@end itemize
@c @item @b{Release-Argument}
@c @item @b{Release-Result}
@item @b{Session}
@c @item @b{SMASE-User-Data}
@c @item @b{Standard-Externals}
@item @i{Title}
@itemize
@c @item @b{AE-Title}
@c @item @b{Entity-Name}
@c @item @b{Form1}
@c @item @b{Form2}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Interface Common Error Definitions
@subsection Interface Common Error Definitions

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@itemize ---
@item @b{Bad-Argument}
@item @i{Error}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Service-Error}
@item @b{Service-Reject}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node GSM MAP Package Objects
@subsection GSM MAP Package Objects

@menu
* GSM SM package Objects::
@end menu

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node GSM SM package Objects
@subsubsection GSM SM package Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node ANSI MAP Package Objects
@subsection ANSI MAP Package Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node Common MAP Package
@section Common MAP Package

@menu
* String(TBCD)::
* String(Sccp-Address)::
* Abort-Argument::
* Abort-Result::
* Accept-Result::
* Acse-Args::
* Address::
* Application-Context-List::
* Assoc-Argument::
* Assoc-Result::
* Close-Argument::
* Context::
* Extension::
* Generic-Service-Argument::
* Generic-Service-Result::
* Map-Assoc-Args::
* Notice-Result::
* Open-Argument::
* Operation-Argument::
* Operation-Error::
* Operation-Reject::
* Operation-Result::
* P-Abort-Result::
* Presentation-Context::
* Presentation-Layer-Args::
* Refuse-Result::
* Release-Argument::
* Release-Result::
* Service-Argument::
* Service-Error::
* Service-Reject::
* Service-Result::
* Session::
* Title::
@end menu

The Common MAP package introduces some additional OM syntaxes that are derivations of the
@i{String(Octet)} syntax.  These additional OM syntaxes are used to represent digit strings for
telephony numbers and SCCP addresses.

@node String(TBCD)
@subsection String(TBCD)

This OM syntax is indicated in OM Attribute tables as @i{String(TBCD)}.

In the C binding, the OM Syntax name for @i{String(TBCD)} is declared as @samp{MAP_S_TBCD_STRING}.

A TBCD string is a Telephony Binary Coded Decimal encoding where digits @samp{0} through @samp{9},
@samp{*}, @samp{#}, @samp{a}, @samp{b} and @samp{c} keys are coded @samp{0000} through @samp{1001},
@samp{1010}, @samp{1011}, @samp{1100}, @samp{1101} and @samp{1110}.  The @dfn{(2n)}'th digit is
encoded in the @dfn{n}'th octet in bits @samp{4321} and the @dfn{(2(n-1)+1)}'th digit iin bits
@samp{8765}.  Code @samp{1111} is used as a filler when the number of digits is odd.

A Telephony Binary Coded Decimal (TBCD) String is used to represent several digits from @samp{0}
through @samp{9}, @samp{*}, @samp{#}, @samp{a}, @samp{b}, @samp{c}, two digits per octet, each digit
encoded @samp{0000} to @samp{1001} (@samp{0} to @samp{9}), @samp{1010} (@samp{*}),
@samp{1011}(@samp{#}), @samp{1100} (@samp{a}), @samp{1101} (@samp{b}), @samp{1110} (@samp{c});
@samp{1111} used as a filler when there is an odd number of digits.   Bits @samp{8765} of octet
@dfn{n} encodes digit @dfn{2n}.  Bits @samp{4321} of octet @dfn{n} encoding digit @dfn{2(n-1)+1}.

@node String(Sccp-Address)
@subsection String(Sccp-Address)

This OM syntax is indicated in OM Attribute tables as @i{String(Sccp-Address)}.

In the C binding, the OM Syntax name for @i{String(Sccp-Address)} is declared as
@samp{MAP_S_SCCP_ADDRESS_STRING}.

An SCCP Address string is a encoded octet string where the encoding is the encoding of an SCCP
address in either ITU-T or ANSI format in accordance with the format specified for the SCCP Called
Party Address in ANSI T1.112/2000 Section 3.4 and ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 Section 3.4.  This
encoding is formatted as follows:

@table @asis
@item Octet 1
The first octet contains the address indicator, which is always present.  The bits of the address
indicator are interpreted as follows:
@table @asis
@item bit 8
@table @code
@item 0
A @samp{0} in bit 8 indicates that the address is formatted as an ITU-T address.
@item 1
A @samp{1} in bit 8 indicates that the address is formatted as an ANSI address.
@end table
@item bit 7
@table @code
@item 0
A @samp{0} in bit 7 indicates that SCCP translation is required and routing is based on global
title.
@item 1
A @samp{1} in bit 7 indicates that SCCP translation is not required and routing is based on
signalling point code and subsystem number.
@end table
@item bits 6543
These bits contain the global title indicator that determines the format of the Global Title.
@item bit 2
@table @code
@item 0
A @samp{0} in bit 2 indicates that the address does not contain a signalling point code.
@item 1
A @samp{1} in bit 2 indicates that the address contains a signalling point code.
@end table
@item bit 1
@table @code
@item 0
A @samp{0} in bit 1 indicates that the address does not contain a subsystem number.
@item 1
A @samp{1} in bit 1 indicates that the address contains a subsystem number.
@end table
@end table
@item ITU-T Format
When bit 8 in octet 1 is set to @samp{0}, the remainder of the address is formatted according to
ITU-T format as follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 2a and 2b
Octets 2a and 2b, when present as indicated by the point code indicator (bit 2 in Octet 1), contains
the ITU-T formatted signalling point code.  Otherwise, octets 2a and 2b are not included.  Octet 2a
contains the least significant eight bits of the 14-bit signalling point code; octet 2b contains the
most significant 6-bits of the signalling point code, aligned to the least significant bit, with the
two most significant bits padded to zeroes.
@item Octet 3
Octet 3, when present as indicated by the subsystem number indicator (bit 1 in Octet 1), contains
the ITU-T formatted subsystem number.  Otherwise, octet 3 is not included.
@item Global Title
@table @asis
@item GTI @samp{0000}
When the global title indicated is coded @samp{0000}, there is no global title octets in the
address.
@item GTI @samp{0001}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0001}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the nature of address indicator.
@item Octet 5a and onwards.
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@item GTI @samp{0010}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0010}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the translation type.
@item Octet 5a and onwards
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@item GTI @samp{0011}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0011}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the translation type.
@item Octet 4b
Contains the numbering plan and encoding scheme as follows:
@table @asis
@item bits 8765
Contain the numbering plan.
@item bits 4321
Contain the encoding scheme.
@end table
@item Octet 5a and onwards
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@item GTI @samp{0100}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0100}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the translation type.
@item Octet 4b
Contains the numbering plan and encoding scheme as follows:
@table @asis
@item bits 8765
Contain the numbering plan.
@item bits 4321
Contain the encoding scheme.
@end table
@item Octet 4c
Contains the nature of address indicator (with the odd/even indicator unused).
@item Octet 5a and onwards
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@end table
@end table
@item ANSI Format
When bit 8 in octet 1 is set to @samp{1}, the remainder of the address is formatted according to
ANSI format as follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 2
Octet 2, when present as indicated by the subsystem number indicator (bit 1 in Octet 1), contains
the ANSI formatted subsystem number.  Otherwise, octet 2 is not included.
@item Octets 3a, 3b, 3c
Octets 3a, 3b, 3c, when present as indicated by the point code indicator (bit 2 in Octet 1),
contains the ANSI formatted signalling point code.  Otherwise, octets 3a, 3b and 3c are not
included.  Octet 3a contains the member component of the signalling point code; 3b the cluster; and
3c the network.
@item Global Title
@table @asis
@item GTI @samp{0000}
When the global title indicated is coded @samp{0000}, there is no global title octets in the
address.
@item GTI @samp{0001}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0001}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the translation type.
@item Octet 4b
Contains the numbering plan and encoding scheme as follows:
@table @asis
@item bits 8765
Contain the numbering plan.
@item bits 4321
Contain the encoding scheme.
@end table
@item Octet 5a and onwards
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@item GTI @samp{0010}
When the global title indicates is coded @samp{0010}, the global title octets are formatted as
follows:
@table @asis
@item Octet 4a
Contains the translation type.
@item Octet 5a and onwards
Contains the address signals.  When BCD encoding is indicated, the address signals are in the format of a @i{String(TBCD)}.
@end table
@end table
@end table
@end table

@node Abort-Argument
@subsection Abort-Argument
@vindex Abort-Argument

An instance of OM abstract class @var{Abort-Argument} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Abort()} function (@pxref{Abort}) or returned from the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a user abort indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Abort-Argument}
(@pxref{GSM-Abort-Argument}) and @b{ANSI-Abort-Argument}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error};
it does not define any attributes of its own.

Because abort causes are Mobile Application package specific, this abstract OM class does not define
any of the values for the @var{problem} or @var{parameter} attributes of the @i{Error} superclass.

See also @ref{Service Error}.

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab053,53,OM Attributes of OM class @var{Abort-Argument}}

@ignore
When a concrete subclass of this object is received as a @i{Result-Or-Argument} result in a
call to @i{Receive()} (@pxref{Receive}), the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} function may be used to retrieve
additional details concerning the association.  @xref{Get-Assoc-Info}.
@end ignore

@node Abort-Result
@subsection Abort-Result
@vindex Abort-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @var{Abort-Result} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Abort-req()} function (@pxref{Abort-req}) or returned from the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for an
association abort indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Abort-Result}
(@pxref{GSM-Abort-Result}) and @b{ANSI-Abort-Result}.

An isntance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error}; it
does not define any attributes of its own.

Because abort result error codes are Mobile Application package specific, this abstract class does
not define any of the @var{problem} values or @var{parameter} syntaxes of the @i{Error} superclass.

@node Accept-Result
@subsection Accept-Result
@vindex Accept-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @var{Accept-Result} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Accept()} function (@pxref{Accept}) or returned from the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for an accept
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Accept-Result}
(@pxref{GSM-Accept-Result}) and @b{ANSI-Accept-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object},
and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{51}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab051,51,OM Attributes of OM class @var{Accept-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item session
Used to return to the user a fully formed dialog session object.  This object may be used for all
furture interface calls pertaining to this new dialog.
@end vtable

When this object is received as a @i{Result-Or-Argument} result in a call to @i{Receive()}
(@pxref{Receive}), the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} function can be used to retrieve additional details
concerning the association.  @xref{Get-Assoc-Info}.

@node Acse-Args
@subsection Acse-Args
@vindex Acse-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Acse-Args} identifies ACSE specific arguments that will be used during
association establishment to a remote peer entity.  These can be specified in the @b{Session} object
if AAM is enabled, or in the @b{Assoc-Argument} or @b{Assoc-Result} object if AAM is disabled.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed below:

@tabfig{xmap_tab028,28,OM Attributes for a @b{Acse-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

The @b{Acse-Args} object collects together all the information that is ACSE specific for association
establishment.

@vtable @var
@item responder-Address
Indicates the address of the responding program named by @var{responder-Title}.
@item responder-Title
Indicates the name of the program which will be used to service management service requests.  It may
be a distinguished name (instance of OM class Form1) or a registered name (instance of OM class
Form2) which is used in name/network address resolution phase to get the application process title,
the application entity qualifier and the presentation address.  It may also be the Entity-Name of
the responding program.
@item application-Context
The application context name proposed by the user to be used on the mobile application association.
When automatic dialog handling is enabled on the session, the application context will be selected
by the Mobile Application Service provider consistent with the Mobile Application Service request or
indication.  Mobile Application Service packages define a set of application contexts that are
applicable to the service package.
@item security-Context
The security context name proposed by the user to be used on the mobile application association.  By
default the security context is not present.  MObile Application Service packages define a set of
security contexts that are applicable to the service package.
@end vtable

@node Address
@subsection Address
@vindex Address

An instance of OM class @b{Address} represents the address of a particular mobile application
entity.  It is used to define the sepcific location to contact a particular mobile application
entity.

An instance of this OM class has all of the attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{30}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab030,30,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Address}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sccp-Address
The address is respresented using an octet string that contains the encoding of an SCCP address in
either ITU-T or ANSI format in accordance with the format specified for the SCCP Called Party
Address in ANSI T1.112/2000 Section 3.4 and ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 Section 3.4
(@pxref{String(Sccp-Address)}) with the following considerations:

@itemize
@item The encoded address @emph{shall} have both a signalling point code and a subsystem number in
the address.
@item The encoded address @emph{shall not} have a global title in the address (the global title
indicated @emph{shall} be coded @samp{0000}).
@item The encoded address will distinguish between ITU-T format and ANSI format using the network
indicator bit as described in ANSI T1.112/2000 Section 3.4.
@end itemize
@end vtable

@c @tabref{xmap_tab037,37,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Address-String}}
@c @tabfig{xmap_tab046,46,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Application-Context-Name}}

@node Application-Context-List
@subsection Application-Context-List
@vindex Application-Context-List

An instance of OM class @b{Application-Context-List} represent a list of application context
names.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{47}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab047,47,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Application-Context-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context-Name
This attribute is one or more instances of an application context name consisting of an integer
syntax or an object-identifier syntax.  The integer syntax is only applicable to some Mobile
Application packages (e.g. the GSM ANSI service package).
@end vtable

@node Assoc-Argument
@subsection Assoc-Argument
@vindex Assoc-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{Assoc-Argument} is the information supplied as an argument of an ACSE
Associate operation to be performed.  This object is passed to @i{Assoc-req()} or returned from
@i{Receive()}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed below:

@tabfig{xmap_tab029,29,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Assoc-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentaiton layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item acse-Args
Indicates ACSE related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item map-Assoc-Args
Indicates MAP related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item session
Used to return an associated @b{Session} object.  This attribute must be empty when @i{Assoc_req()}
is called, and is supplied as a @b{Result} parameter by the Mobile Application Service provider upon
return from that call.  When the object is returned from @i{Receive()}, this attribute is a
partially associated @b{Session} object.  Partially associated session objects can be aborted by
calling @i{Abort_req()} using the new partially associated session object.  Partially associated
session objects can become fully associated by calling @i{Assoc_rsp()}.  To accept or refuse the new
association, call @b{Assoc_rsp()} using the new partially associated session object that was
returned by @i{Receive()} for the association indication.
@end vtable

@node Assoc-Result
@subsection Assoc-Result
@vindex Assoc-Result

An instance of OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is the information supplied as a response of an ACSE
Associate operation to be performed.  This object is passed to @i{Assoc-rsp()} or returned from
@i{Receive()}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{61}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab061,61,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Assoc-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentation layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item acse-Args
Indicates ACSE relasted arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item map-Assoc-Args
Indicates MAP related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item session
Used to return to the user an associated session object.  This object may be used for all future
interface calls pertaining to this new association.
@end vtable

@node Close-Argument
@subsection Close-Argument
@vindex Close-Argument

An instance of OM class @var{Close-Argument} represents the base information that is supplied as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Clsoe()} function (@pxref{Close}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a close
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Close-Argument}
(@pxref{GSM-Close-Argument}) and @b{ANSI-Close-Argument}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object},
it does not define any OM attribtutes of its own.

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab050,50,OM Attributes of OM class @var{Close-Argument}}
@c @tabfig{xmap_tab027,27,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Cmip-Assoc-Args}}

@node Context
@subsection Context
@vindex Context

An instance of OM class @b{Context} comprises per operation arguments that are accepted by most of
the interface functions.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attribtutes listed below:

@tabfig{xmap_tab023,23,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @i
@item Common Arguments
@vtable @var
@item extensions
@end vtable
@item Service Controls
@vtable @var
@c @item access-Control
@item mode
@c @item priority
@item application-Context
@item responder-Address
@item responder-Title
@end vtable
@item Local Controls
@vtable @var
@item asynchronous
@item reply-Limit
@item time-Limit
@end vtable
@end table

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab049,49,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Dialog-Args}}

@node Extension
@subsection Extension
@vindex Extension

An instance of OM class @b{Extension} represent an extension to ASN.1 syntax.  This object is coded
using the @dfn{any} syntax.  The particular syntax of the extension is dependent upon the object
within which an instance of this extension object is contained.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of is superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{45}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab045,45,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Extension}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension
This attribute is a syntax that represents the ASN.1 encoding of the extension complete with tags.
@end vtable

@node Generic-Service-Argument
@subsection Generic-Service-Argument
@vindex Generic-Service-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Argument} represents a generic service request independent
of a defined Mobile Application Services package.  This object is used to support service requests
that have not been defined in a Mobile Application Services package, or for a Mobile Application
Services package that is not supported by the implementation workspace.

An instance of this OM class has the attributes of it is superclasses, @i{Service-Request}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{55}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab055,55,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item confirmation
This attribute is a boolean value that specifies whether the operation is performed in the confirmed
or unconfirmed mode.  When performed in a confirmed mode, a response is expected.  When performed in
the unconfirmed mode, no response is expected.  This attribute determines which TCAP operations
class will be used for the underlying invoke operation.
@item operation
This attribute specifies the ROSE/TCAP operation code associated with the service request as either
an integer or an object identifier.  Whether an integer or object identifier is used depends upon
the underlying ROSE/TCAP provider and may differ depending on the Mobile Application Package in use
(e.g. GSM MAP or ANSI MAP).
@item arguments
This attribute specifies the parameters of the operation invocation as one or more instances of OM
class Encoding.  This encoding class will be encapsulated in a Parameter Sequence by the underlying
ROSE/TCAP provider.
@end vtable

@node Generic-Service-Result
@subsection Generic-Service-Result
@vindex Generic-Service-Result

An instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Result} represents a generic service response independent
of a defined Mobile Application Services package.  This object is used to support service responses
that have not been defined in a Mobile Application Services package, or for a Mobile Application
Services package that is not supported by the implementation workspace.

An instance of this OM class has the attributes of its superclasses, @i{Service-Result}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{56}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab056,56,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item operation
This attribute specifies the ROSE/TCAP operation code associated with the service request as either
an integer or an object identifier.  Whether an integer or object identifier is used depends upon
the underlying ROSE/TCAP provider and may differ depending on the Mobile Application Package in use
(e.g. GSM MAP or ANSI MAP).
@item response
This attribute specifies the parameters of the operation invocation as one or more instances of OM
class Encoding.  This encoding class will be encapsulated in a Parameter Sequence by the underlying
ROSE/TCAP provider.
@end vtable

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab057,57,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Result}}
@c @tabref{xmap_tab038.tbl,38,OM Attributes of OM class @b{ISDN-Address-String}}
@c @tabfig{xmap_tab030,30,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Itut-Sccp-Address}}

@node Map-Assoc-Args
@subsection Map-Assoc-Args
@vindex Map-Assoc-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Map-Assoc-Args} represents the MAP association arguments that are
optionally supplied by the @b{Session}, @b{Assoc-Argument} or @b{Assoc-Result} objects and can be
interrogated with the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} function.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{60}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab060,60,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Map-Assoc-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context-List
@item version-List
@end vtable

@node Notice-Result
@subsection Notice-Result
@vindex Notice-Result

An instance of OM class @var{Notice-Result} represents the base information that is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a notice
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Notice-Result}
(@pxref{GSM-Notice-Result}) and @b{ANSI-Notice-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}.  It does not
define any OM attributes of its own.

@node Open-Argument
@subsection Open-Argument
@vindex Open-Argument

An instance of OM class @var{Open-Argument} represents the base information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Open()} function (@pxref{Open}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for an open indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Open-Argument}
(@pxref{GSM-Open-Argument}) and @b{ANSI-Open-Argument}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{32}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab032,32,OM Attributes of OM abstract class @var{Open-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item responder-Address
Specifies the responder address (the address of the remote mobile application entity) for a bound
session object with AAM enabled, this address takes precedence over any @var{responder-Address}
contained in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.  For an associated session object, the
precedence rules are different and the @b{Open-Argument} object cannot be used to override the
@var{responder-Address} contained in the @b{Session} object.
@item responder-Title
Specifies the responder title.  This title takes precedence over any @var{responder-Title} contained
in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.  When not specified by any object, the MAS provider will
not include a responder title in the open request.
@item requesting-Address
The @var{requesting-Address} contained in the @b{Open-Argument} cannot be used to override the
any requesting address contained in the @b{Session} object.
@item requesting-Title
Specifies the requesting title.  This title takes precedence over any @var{requesting-Title}
contained in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.  When not specified by any object, the MAS
provider will not include a requesting title.
@item session
Use to return a partially formed dialog @b{Session} object.  This attribute must be empty when
@i{Open()} is called, and is supplied as a @b{Result} parameter by the Mobile Application Service
provider upon return from that call.  The partially formed dialog session can either be aborted
with a call to @i{Abort()}, or can become a fully formed dialog session with a call to @i{Accept()}.
To abort the partially formed dialog session, call @i{Abort()} using the new partially formed
dialog session object.  To accept or refuse the new dialog, call @i{Accept()} or @i{Refuse()} using
the session object that received the association indication.
@end vtable

@node Operation-Argument
@subsection Operation-Argument
@vindex Operation-Argument

@node Operation-Error
@subsection Operation-Error
@vindex Operation-Error

@node Operation-Reject
@subsection Operation-Reject
@vindex Operation-Reject

@node Operation-Result
@subsection Operation-Result
@vindex Operation-Result

@node P-Abort-Result
@subsection P-Abort-Result
@vindex P-Abort-Result

An instance of OM abstract class @var{P-Abort-Result} represents the base information returned in
the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result from the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a
provider abort indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-P-Abort-Result}
(@pxref{GSM-P-Abort-Result}) and @b{ANSI-P-Abort-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error}; it
does not define any OM attributes of its own.

See also @ref{Service Error}.

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab054,54,OM Attributes of OM class @var{P-Abort-Result}}

@node Presentation-Context
@subsection Presentation-Context
@vindex Presentation-Context

An instance of OM class @b{Presentation-Context} lists the presentation contexts for association
establishment.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed below:

@tabfig{xmap_tab026,26,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Presentation-Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Id
The integer user identification of the presentation context.
@item presentation-Abstract
Identifies the abstract syntax.  If no value is supplied, by default the abstract syntax name
is provided by the Mobile Application package.  The GSM MAP package provides a default abstract
syntax name of map-DialogueAs, specified by 3GPP TS 29.002, and is supplied by the Mobile
Application Service provider.  This Object-Identifier is @code{@{ itu-t(0)
identified-organization(4) etsi(0) mobile-domain(0) gsm-Network(1) as-Id(1) map-DialoguePDU(1)
version1(1) @}} and is provided in the C binding as @samp{MAP_GSM_DIALOGUE_AS}.
@end vtable

@node Presentation-Layer-Args
@subsection Presentation-Layer-Args
@vindex Presentation-Layer-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Presentation-Layer-Args} identifies the presentation layer arguments that
will be used during association establishment.  These can be specified in the session object if AAM
is enabled, or in the Assoc-Argument or Assoc-Result object if AAM is disabled.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed below:

@tabfig{xmap_tab025,25,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Presentation-Layer-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Context-List
The list of presentation contexts.
@end vtable

@node Refuse-Result
@subsection Refuse-Result
@vindex Refuse-Result

An instance of OM class @var{Refuse-Result} represents the base information that is supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Refuse()} function (@pxref{Refuse}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a refuse indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{GSM-Refuse-Result}
(@pxref{GSM-Refuse-Result}) and @b{ANSI-Refuse-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object},
it does not define any OM attributes of its own.

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab052,52,OM Attributes of OM class @var{Refuse-Result}}

@node Release-Argument
@subsection Release-Argument
@vindex Release-Argument

@node Release-Result
@subsection Release-Result
@vindex Release-Result

@node Service-Argument
@subsection Service-Argument
@vindex Service-Argument

An instance of OM class @var{Service-Argument} represents the base information that is supplied as
an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service indication.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses:
@b{GSM-Service-Argument} (@pxref{GSM-Service-Argument}) and @b{ANSI-Service-Argument}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionaly
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{64}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab064,64,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Service-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item responder-Address
@item responder-Title
@item requesting-Title
@end vtable

@node Service-Error
@subsection Service-Error
@vindex Service-Error

An instance of abstract OM class @var{Service-Error} represents the base information that is
supplied in response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the
@i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a @i{Result-Or-Argument}
result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{GSM-Service-Error}
(@pxref{GSM-Service-Error}) and @b{ANSI-Service-Error}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error}.  As
the @var{problem} values and @var{parameter} syntaxes are Mobile Application package specific, this
OM class defines no attributes or error values of its own.

@xref{Service Error}.

@node Service-Reject
@subsection Service-Reject
@vindex Service-Reject

An instance of abstract OM class @var{Service-Reject} represents the base information that is
supplied in response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the
@i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as  @i{Result-Or-Argument}
result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{GSM-Service-Reject}
(@pxref{GSM-Service-Reject}) and @b{ANSI-Service-Reject}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attribute of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error}.  As
the @var{problem} values and @var{parameter} syntaxes are Mobile Application package specific, this
OM class defines no attributes or error values of its own.

Note that when Automatic Association Management or Automatic Dialog Handling are enabled on a sesion
for which a concrete subclass of the @var{Service-Reject} is used as a response, the
@var{Service-Reject} object also represents the errors that would otherwise be reported using a
concrete subclass of @var{Abort-Argument}, @var{P-Abort-Result} (were ADH to be diabled) or
@var{Refuse-Result} or @var{Abort-Result} (were AAM to be disabled).

Therefore, when ADH is enabled on a session, the @var{problem} and @var{parameter} attributes of the
@i{Error} superclass may also contain any of the error values defined for the corresponding
@var{Abort-Argument} or @var{P-Abort-Result} subclasses.  When AAM is enabled on a session, the
@var{problem} and @var{parameter} attributes of the @i{Error} superclass may also contain any of the
error values defined for the corresponding @var{Refuse-Result} or @var{Abort-Result} subclasses.

@xref{Service Error}.

@node Service-Result
@subsection Service-Result
@vindex Service-Result

An instance of OM class @var{Service-Result} represents the base information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a receive
result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses:
@b{GSM-Service-Result} (@pxref{GSM-Service-Result}) and @b{ANSI-Service-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}.  As the error
codes are Mobile Application package specific, this OM class defines no attributes of its own.

@node Session
@subsection Session
@vindex Session

An instance of OM class @b{Session} identifies a particular communications link from the application
program to the Mobile Application Service provider or to a remote mobile application entity
depending upon the state of the session object.  Session objects can be created with Automatic
Association Management enabled or disabled.  If AAM is enabled, then all of the ACSE connection
management, needed to deliver a mobile application service operation, is done by the Mobile
Application Service provider.  If AAM is disabled, the ACSE connection management is done by the
user before issuing or receiving Mobile Application Service operations.

The use of and rules for the session object are different depending on whether AAM is enabled or
disabled.  AAM is specified as part of @i{Negotiate()}.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{24}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab024,24,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Session}}

For a description of the three type of @b{Session} objects: AAM Enabled Session, AAM Disabled
Session and Connected Session, see @ref{Session Description}.

The OM atributes of a @i{Session} are:

@vtable @var
@item requestor-Address
Indicates the address of the requesting program named by @b{requestor-Title}.  If both the
requestor-Address and requestor-Title are not specified, the service provider will supply a default
requestor-Address.
@item requestor-Title
Indicates the name of the requesting program, user of this session.  It may be a distinguished name
(instance of OM class @b{Form1}) or a registerd name (instance of OM class @b{Form2}) which is used
in name/network address resolution phase to get the application process title, the application
entity qualifier and the presentation address.  It my also be the entity-name of the requesting
program.
@item role
Indicates the roles acted by the resquestor.  The role value is specified by OR-ing none, one, or
more of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{performer-role}
(@samp{MAP_T_PERFORMER_ROLE})
Responder and performer of mobile application services operations.  Unless this role is set or
implied, no indications will be returned by calls to @i{Receive} and the Mobile Application Service
provider does not need to provide indications to the bound session user.
@item @b{invoker-role}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVOKER_ROLE})
Requester and Invoker of mobile application services operations.  If @b{performer-role} is set and
@b{invoker-role} is clear, the Mobile Application Service provider does not need to honor operation
or service requests from the bound session user.
@end table
When both role flags are clear, or this attribute is not present in the session, the Mobile
Application Service provider may still honor operation and service requests.
@item file-Descriptor
Indicates the file descriptor associated with the session.  The file descriptor may be used by
implementors of the @i{Wait()} function.  The file descriptor may be used in subsequent calls to
vendor-specific system facilities to suspend the process (for example, System V @manref{poll(2)} or
BSD @manref{select(2)}).  Its use for any other purpose is unspecified.

If the implementation does not define any suitable supsension facilities, or if the session is not
started, the value is @b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor} (@samp{-1} or
@samp{MAP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}).
@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentation layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Mobile Application Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item acse-Args
Indicates the ACSE related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none
are supplied, the Mobile Application Service Provider will supply defaults if required.
@item map-Assoc-Args
Indicates the MAP association related arguments that will be used during association establishment.
If not are supplied, the Mobile Application Service Provider will supply defaults if required.
@c @item specific-Information ????
@end vtable

@node Title
@subsection Title
@vindex Title

An instance of OM class @b{Title} represents the title of a paticular mobile application service
entity.  It contains various subclass types used to define the specific mobile application process
or system name responsible for a mobile application service entity.

An instance of this OM class has all of the attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{31}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab031,31,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Title}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sccp-Title
The title is respresented using an octet string that contains the encoding of an SCCP address in
either ITU-T or ANSI format in accordance with the format specified for the SCCP Called Party
Address in ANSI T1.112/2000 Section 3.4 and ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 Section 3.4
(@pxref{String(Sccp-Address)}) with the following considerations:

@itemize
@item The encoded address @emph{may} have either a signalling point code or a subsystem number, or
both, in the address.
@item The encoded address @emph{shall} have a global title in the address (the global title
indicated @emph{shall not} be coded @samp{0000}).
@item The encoded address will distinguish between ITU-T format and ANSI format using the network
indicator bit as described in ANSI T1.112/2000 Section 3.4.
@end itemize
@end vtable

@node GSM MAP Package
@section GSM MAP Package

@menu
* String(Address)::
* String(Subaddress)::
* GSM-Abort-Argument::
* GSM-Abort-Result::
* GSM-Accept-Result::
* GSM-Close-Argument::
* GSM-Context::
* GSM-Map-Assoc-Args::
* GSM-Notice-Result::
* GSM-Open-Argument::
* GSM-P-Abort-Result::
* GSM-Refuse-Result::
* GSM-Release-Argument::
* GSM-Release-Result::
* GSM-Service-Argument::
* GSM-Service-Error::
* GSM-Service-Reject::
* GSM-Service-Result::
* GSM Data Types::
@end menu

The GSM MAP package provides specialization of the argument and result objects of the Common MAP
package to provide for the services under the GSM MAP as described in 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.6.
This package is organized as a separate OM package that can be negotiated using the @i{Negotiate()}
function.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}

The Object-Identifier associated with the GSM MAP package is:
@smallformat
@verbatim
{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
  xom-packages(1) xmap(1) gsm(2) }
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{GSM-Package} (@samp{MAP_GSM_PKG}).  This
constant can be used to negotiate support for the package using the @i{Negotiate()} function.

GSM MAP package introduces some additional OM syntaxes that are derivations of the @i{String(Octet)}
syntax.  These additional OM syntaxes are used to represent digit strings and telphony numbers.
@xref{String(Address)}.

The following outlines the OM Class Hierarchy for the GSM MAP package:

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@itemize ---
@item @i{Abort-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Abort-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @i{Abort-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Abort-Result}
@end itemize
@item @i{Accept-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Accept-Result}
@end itemize
@item @i{Close-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Close-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @i{Context} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Context}
@end itemize
@item @b{Extension-Container}
@item @i{Map-Assoc-Args} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Map-Assoc-Args}
@end itemize
@item @i{Notice-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Notice-Result}
@end itemize
@item @i{Open-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Open-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @i{P-Abort-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-P-Abort-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @b{PCS-Extensions}
@item @b{Private-Extension}
@item @b{Private-Extension-List}
@item @i{Refuse-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Refuse-Result}
@end itemize
@item @i{Release-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Release-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @i{Release-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Release-Result}
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Argument} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Service-Argument}
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result} (defined in @var{MAP-Common-Package})
@itemize ---
@item @b{GSM-Service-Result}
@end itemize
@item @b{Specific-Information}
@item @b{User-Abort-Choice}
@end itemize
@end itemize


@node String(Address)
@subsection String(Address)

This OM syntax is indicated in OM Attribute tables as @i{String(Address)}.

In the C binding, the OM Syntax name for @i{String(Address)} is @samp{MAP_S_ADDRESS_STRING}.

This syntax is used to represent a number for addressing purposes.  It is composed of a sequence of
one or more octets, consisting of:

@itemize
@item one octet for nature of address and numbering plan indicator;
@item digits of an addres encoded as String(TBCD).
@end itemize

The first octet includes a one bit extension indicator, 3-bit nature of address indicator, and 4-bit
numbering plan indicator coded as follows:

@table @asis
@item bit @samp{8}:
This bit is an unused extension bit (no extension, coded as zero (@samp{0})).
@item bits @samp{765}:
These bits contain the Nature of Address Indicator:
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{000} @tab unknown
@item @samp{001} @tab international number
@item @samp{010} @tab national significant number
@item @samp{011} @tab network specific number
@item @samp{100} @tab subscriber number
@item @samp{101} @tab reserved
@item @samp{110} @tab abbreviated number
@item @samp{111} @tab reserved for extension
@end multitable
@item bits @samp{4321}:
These bits contain the Numbering Plan:
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0000} @tab unknown
@item @samp{0001} @tab ISDN/Telephony Number Plan (ITU-T Rec. E.164)
@item @samp{0010} @tab spare
@item @samp{0011} @tab data numbering plan (ITU-T Rec. X.121)
@item @samp{0100} @tab telex numbering plan (ITU-T Rec. F.69)
@item @samp{0101} @tab spare
@item @samp{0110} @tab land mobile numbering plan (ITU-T Rec. E.212)
@item @samp{0111} @tab spare
@item @samp{1000} @tab national numbering plan
@item @samp{1001} @tab private numbering plan
@item @samp{1010} @tab reserved
@item @samp{1011} @tab reserved
@item @samp{1100} @tab reserved
@item @samp{1101} @tab reserved
@item @samp{1110} @tab reserved
@item @samp{1111} @tab reserved for extension
@end multitable
@end table

The following octets representing digits of an address encoded as @i{String(TBCD)}.

@node String(Subaddress)
@subsection String(Subaddress)

This OM syntax is indicated in OM Attribute tables as @i{String(Subaddress)}.

In the C binding, the OM Syntax name for @i{String(Subaddress)} is @samp{MAP_S_SUBADDRESS_STRING}.

This syntax is used to represent a number for addressing purposes.  It is used to represent ISDN
subaddresses.  It is composed of:

@itemize
@item one octet of type of subaddress and odd/even indicator;
@item twenty octets of subaddress information.
@end itemize

The first octet includes a one bit extension indicator, a 3-bit type of subaddress, and a one bit
odd/even indicator, encoded as follows:

@table @asis
@item bit @samp{8}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{1} @tab (no extension)
@end multitable
@item bits @samp{765}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{000} @tab NSAP (X.213/ISO 8348 AD2)
@item @samp{010} @tab User Specified
@item --- @tab all other values reserved
@end multitable
@item bit @samp{4}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0} @tab even number of address signals
@item @samp{1} @tab odd number of address signals
@end multitable
@item bits @samp{321}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{000} @tab (unused)
@end multitable
@end table

The following octets represent the address signals or subaddress information.

The NSAP X.213/ISO8348 AD2 address shall be formatted as specified by octet 4 which contains the
Authority and Format Identifier (AFI).  The encoding is made according to the ``preferred binary
encoding'' as defined in X.213/ISO 8348 AD2.  For the definition of this type of subaddress, see
ITU-T Recommendation I.334.

For User-specific subaddress, this field is encoded according to the user specification, subject to
a maximum length of 20 octets.  When interworking with X.25 networks, BCD coding should be applied.

@node GSM-Abort-Argument
@subsection GSM-Abort-Argument
@vindex GSM-Abort-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Abort-Argument} represents the information that can be supplied as
the @i{Argument} argument to the @i{Abort()} function (@pxref{Abort}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result of a user
abort indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Object}, @i{Error},
@i{Abort-Argument} (@pxref{Abort-Argument}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{5}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab005,5,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Abort-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item problem
@table @b
@item user-specific-reason(0)@footnote{Note: this error corresponds to the @var{MAP-U-ABORT} @var{User reason} @b{procedure-error}.} (@samp{MAP_E_PROCEDURE_ERROR})
Processing of the procedure is terminated due to procedural reasons.
The remote MAP Service User has aborted the operation due to a user-specific reason.
Indicates that the user abort reason is user specific and no additional information is provided.
@ignore
@table @asis
@item @b{user-specific-reason}
(@samp{MAP_E_USER_SPECIFIC_REASON})
@end table
@end ignore
There is no error parameter associated with this problem code.
@item resource-limitation-congestion(1) (@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITATION_CONGESTION})
The requested user resource is unavailable due to congestion.
The remote MAP Service User has aborted the operation due to a resource limitation (such as
congestion).
Indicates that the user abort reason is related to a resource limitation (e.g. congestion) and no
additional information is provided.
@ignore
@table @asis
@item @b{resource-limitation-congestion}
(@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITIATION_CONGESTION})
@end table
@end ignore
There is no error parameter associated with this problem code.
@item resource-unavailable(2) (@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE})
The requested user resource is unavailable for reasons other than congestion.
The remote MAP Serice User has aborted the operation due to the unavailability of a resource (such
as system memory).  This is either of a short term or long term nature.
Indicates that the user abort reason is due to the unavailability of a resource.
The reason is further qualified as to the duration of the resource limitation as follows:
@table @asis
@item @b{short-term-resource-limitation}
(@samp{MAP_E_SHORT_TERM_RESOURCE_LIMITATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{long-term-resource-limitation}
(@samp{MAP_E_LONG_TERM_RESOURCE_LIMITATION} @samp{1})
@end table
This further qualification is contained in the error @var{parameter} as an Integer value.
@item application-procedure-cancellation(3) (@samp{MAP_E_APPLICATION_PROCEDURE_CANCELLATION})
The procedure is cancelled for reasons detailed in the diagnostic information parameter.
The remote MAP Service User has aborted the operation due to application procedure cancellation.
The cause of the cancellation is provided.
Indicates that the user abort reason is due to the cancellation of a procedure.  The reason is
futher qualified as to the source of the cancellation as follows:
@table @asis
@item @b{handover-cancellation}
(@samp{MAP_E_HANDOVER_CANCELLATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{radio-channel-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_RADIO_CHANNEL_RELEASE} @samp{1})
@item @b{network-path-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_NETWORK_PATH_RELEASE} @samp{2})
@item @b{call-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_CALL_RELEASE} @samp{3})
@item @b{associated-procedure-failure}
(@samp{MAP_E_ASSOCIATED_PROCEDURE_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@item @b{tandem-dialogue-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_TANDEM_DIALOGUE_RELEASE} @samp{5})
@item @b{remote-operations-failure}
(@samp{MAP_E_REMOTE_OPERATIONS_FAILURE} @samp{6})
@end table
This further qualification is contained in the error @var{parameter} as an Integer value.
@end table
@item parameter
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@item specific-Information
This attribute is zero or more instances of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable

@c @tabfig{xmap_tab048,48,OM Attributes of OM class @b{User-Abort-Choice}}

@node GSM-Abort-Result
@subsection GSM-Abort-Result
@vindex GSM-Abort-Result

@node GSM-Accept-Result
@subsection GSM-Accept-Result
@vindex GSM-Accept-Result

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Accept-Result} represents the information that is supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Accept()} function (@pxref{Accept}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for an accept
confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Accept-Result}
(@pxref{Accept-Result}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{2}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab002,2,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Accept-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item specific-Information
This attribute provides user-specific information that is passed transparently between peer mobile
application service users as part of dialog establishment.
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable

@node GSM-Close-Argument
@subsection GSM-Close-Argument
@vindex GSM-Close-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Close-Argument} represents the information that is supplied as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Close()} function (@pxref{Close}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a close
indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Close-Argument}
(@pxref{Close-Argument}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{4}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab004,4,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Close-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item release-Method
Specifies the release method for closing the dialogue.  When supplied as an argument to the
@i{Close()} function, this value can be one of the following:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal-release}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL_RELEASE})
The release is normal (and will result in issuing a MAP-CLOSE dialogue and a TCAP END message).
@item @b{prearranged-end}
(@samp{MAP_T_PREARRANGED_END})
The release is prearranged (and will not result in either issuing a MAP-CLOSE dialogue nor a TCAP
END message).
@end table
@table @b
@item Note:
When indicated by the @i{Receive()} function, this attribute will always contain @b{normal-release}.
@end table
@item specific-Information
This attribute provides user-specific information that is passed transparently to the remote peer
moble application service user.
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable

@node GSM-Context
@subsection GSM-Context
@vindex GSM-Context

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Context} comprises per operation arguments, including GSM specific
arguments, that are accepted by most of the interface functions.

An instance of the OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Context}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{65}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab065,65,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Context}}.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @var
@item application-Context
Specifies the application context for the calle to @i{Open()}, @i{Refuse()} (ADH disabled) or
@i{Service-req()}, @i{Service-rsp()} (ADH enabled).  When not specified, the MAS provider will
select a default value as required.
@item destination-Reference
Specifies the destination reference for the call to @i{Open()} (ADH disabled) or @i{Service-req()}
(ADH enabled).  When not specified, the MAS provider will select a default value as required.
@item originating-Reference
Specifies the originating reference for the call to @i{Open()} (ADH disabled) or @i{Service-req()}
(ADH enabled).  When not specified, the MAS provider will select a default value as required.
@item specific-Information
Specifies the specific information as an instance of the OM class @b{Specific-Information}
(@pxref{Specific-Information}) to be passed with any dialog handling or service request or response.
@end table
For a call to @i{Service-req()} or @i{Service-rsp} for a fully or paritally formed dialog session,
the precedence rules for common attributes in the @b{Context} and @b{Session} objects are different
and the @var{application-Context}, @var{destination-Reference} and @var{originating-Reference}  in
the @b{GSM-Context} object cannot be used to override those contained in the dialog @b{Session} object.

@node GSM-Map-Assoc-Args
@subsection GSM-Map-Assoc-Args
@vindex GSM-Map-Assoc-Args

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Map-Assoc-Args} represents the additional GSM specific MAP
association arguments that are optionally supplied by the @b{Session}, @b{Assoc-Argument} or
@b{Assoc-Result} objects and can be interrogated with the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} function.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Map-Assoc-Args}
(@pxref{Map-Assoc-Args}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{62}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab062,62,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Map-Assoc-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item destination-Reference
This attribute is a destination reference represented as an address string.
The rules for supplying destination references is given in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item originating-Reference
This attribute is a originating reference represented as an address string.
The rules for supplying originating references is given in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item specific-Information
This attribute is zero or more instances of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable


@node GSM-Notice-Result
@subsection GSM-Notice-Result
@vindex GSM-Notice-Result

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Notice-Result} respresents the information that is returned in a
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a notice
indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Notice-Result}
(@pxref{Notice-Result}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{7}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab007,7,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Notice-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item Problem-Diagnostic
@table @asis
@item @b{abnormal-event-detected-by-peer}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABNORMAL_EVENT_DETECTED_BY_PEER})
@item @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESPONSE_REJECTED_BY_THE_PEER})
@item @b{abnormal-event-received-from-the-peer}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABNORMAL_EVENT_RECEIVED_FROM_THE_PEER})
@item @b{message-cannot-be-delivered-to-the-peer}
(@samp{MAP_T_MESSAGE_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED_TO_THE_PEER})
@end table

The following values of the problem code of the TC-R-REJECT and TC-U-REJECT primitive are mapped to
the values of the diagnostic parameter of the MAP-NOTICE indication primitive as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .6
@item @i{TC Problem Code} @tab @i{MAP Diagnostic}
@item @i{general-problem(0)}
@item @b{unrecognized-component(0)} @tab @b{abormal-event-detected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{mistyped-component(1)} @tab @b{abormal-event-detected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{badly-structured-component(2)} @tab @b{abormal-event-detected-by-the-peer}
@item @i{invoke-problem(1)}
@item @b{duplicate-invoke-id(0)}
@item @b{unrecognized-operation(1)}
@item @b{mistyped-parameter(2)}
@item @b{resource-limitiation(3)}
@item @b{initiating-release(4)}
@item @b{unrecognized-linked-id(5)} @tab @b{abormal-event-detected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{linked-response-unexpected(6)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{unexpected-linked-operation(7)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @i{return-result-problem(2)}
@item @b{unrecognized-invoke-id(0)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{return-result-unexpected(1)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{mistyped-parameter(2)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @i{return-error-problem(3)}
@item @b{unrecognized-invoke-id(0)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{return-error-unexpected(1)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{unrecognized-error(2)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{unexpected-error(3)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@item @b{mistyped-parameter(4)} @tab @b{response-rejected-by-the-peer}
@end multitable

The following values of the problem code parameter of the TC-L-REJECT primitive are mapped to values
of the diagnostic parameter of the MAP-NOTICE indication primitive as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .6
@item @i{TC Problem Code} @tab @i{MAP Diagnostic}
@item @i{general-problem(0)} @tab @b{abormal-event-received-from-the-peer}
@item @i{invoke-problem(1)}
@item @b{unrecognized-linked-id(5)} @tab @b{abormal-event-received-from-the-peer}
@item @i{return-result-problem(2)}
@item @b{unrecognized-invoke-id(0)} @tab @b{abnormal-event-received-from-the-peer}
@item @i{return-error-problem(3)}
@item @b{unrecognized-invoke-id(0)} @tab @b{abnormal-event-received-from-the-peer}
@end multitable

@end vtable

@node GSM-Open-Argument
@subsection GSM-Open-Argument
@vindex GSM-Open-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Open-Argument} represents the information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Open()} function (@pxref{Open}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for an open indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Open-Argument}
(@pxref{Open-Argument}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{1}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab001,1,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Open-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context
Specifies the application context for the dialog.  When not specified, the MAS will provide a
default application context when required.
@item destination-Reference
This attribute is a destination reference represented as an address string.
The rules for supplying destination references is given in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item originating-Reference
This attribute is a originating reference represented as an address string.
The rules for supplying originating references is given in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item specific-Information
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable


@node GSM-P-Abort-Result
@subsection GSM-P-Abort-Result
@vindex GSM-P-Abort-Result

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-P-Abort-Result} represents the information that is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a provider abort
indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{P-Abort-Result}
(@pxref{P-Abort-Result}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{6}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab006,6,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-P-Abort-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

This OM class corresponds to the @dfn{MAP-P-ABORT} indication primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 which
contains @dfn{Provider reason} and @dfn{Source} parameters.  This indication can result from the
receipt of the local MAS provider of a @code{map-providerAbort} dialogue PDU or as a result of the
receipt of a @dfn{TC-U-ABORT} or @dfn{TC-P-ABORT} indication primitive from the underlying TC
provider.  A @dfn{TC-P-ABORT} can either be because of an error detected in the dialogue user, or
due to receipt of a @dfn{TR-P-ABORT} indication primitive.

@vtable @var
@item provider-Reason

@table @asis
@item @b{provider-malfunction}
(@samp{MAP_E_PROVIDER_MALFUNCTION})
When the @var{source} is MAP, this represents a malfunction at the MAP level at the peer entity.
When the @var{source} is TC, this represents the TC-P-ABORT reasons: @b{unrecognised-message-type},
@b{badly-formatted-transaction-portion}, @b{incorrect-transaction-portion} or @b{abnormal-dialogue}.
When the @var{source} is NSP, this represents a malfunction at the network service level at the peer
entity.
@item @b{supporting-dialogue-transaction-released}
(@samp{MAP_E_SUPPORTING_DIALOGUE_TRANSACTION_RELEASED})
When the @var{source} is TC, this represents the TC-P-ABORT reason @b{unrecognised-transaction-id}.
@item @b{resource-limitation}
(@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITATION})
When the @var{source} is MAP, this represents congestion toward the MAP peer service-user.
When the @var{source} is TC, this represents @b{resource-limitation} received in a TC-P-ABORT.
@item @b{maintenance-activity}
(@samp{MAP_E_MAINTENANCE_ACTIVITY})
When the @var{source} is MAP, this represents maintenance activity at the MAP peer service-user.
When the @var{source} is NSP, this represents maintenance at the network peer service level.
@item @b{version-incompatibility}
(@samp{MAP_E_VERSION_INCOMPATIBILITY})
When the @var{source} is TC, this represents a TC-P-ABORT indicating @b{no-common-dialogue-portion}
or @b{incorrect-transaction-portion} received in the dialogue initated state.
@item @b{abnormal-map-dialogue}
(@samp{MAP_E_ABNORMAL_MAP_DIALOGUE})
When the @var{source} is MAP, this represents a MAP dialogue that is not in accordance with the
specified application context.
@end table

@item source

@table @asis
@item @b{map-problem}
(@samp{MAP_E_MAP_PROBLEM})
@item @b{tc-problem}
(@samp{MAP_E_TC_PROBLEM})
@item @b{network-service-problem}
(@samp{MAP_E_NETWORK_SERVICE_PROBLEM})
@end table

@item p-Abort-Reason
This attribute reflects the MAP provider abort reason (this is the information passed by the remote
MAP provider in the MAP-P-ABORT dialogue PDU in the AABT APDU) and has one of the following values:

@table @asis
@item @samp{0} @b{abnormal-dialogue(0)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ABNORMAL_DIALOGUE})
@item @samp{1} @b{invalid-pdu(1)}
(@samp{MAP_E_INVALID_PDU})
@end table

@item p-Abort-Cause
This attribute reflects the TC provider abort cause (this is the information passed by the remote
TCAP provider in the TCAP P-ABORT PDU) and has one of the following values:

@table @asis
@item @samp{0} @b{unrecognized-message-type(0)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNRECOGNIZED_MESSAGE_TYPE})
@item @samp{1} @b{unrecognized-transaction-id(1)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNRECOGNIZED_TRANSACTION_ID})
@item @samp{2} @b{badly-formatted-transaction-portion(2)}
(@samp{MAP_E_BADLY_FORMATTED_TRANSACTION_PORTION})
@item @samp{3} @b{incorrect-transaction-portion(3)}
(@samp{MAP_E_INCORRECT_TRANSACTION_PORTION})
@item @samp{4} @b{resource-limitation(4)}
(@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITATION})
@end table

The component sublayer will decide to abort a dialogue and discard any components received if an
incorrect dialogue portion (e.g. syntactically incorrect or inopportune) is received or if no common
version of the dialogue portion control APDUs can be agreed to.  It informs its TC-user via a
TC-P-ABORT indication primitive with ``P-Abort'' in the primtiive set to respectively ``abnormal
dialogue'' or ``no common dialogue portion''.

@table @asis
@item @samp{5} @b{abnormal-dialogue(5)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ABNORMAL_DIALOGUE})
This is a local value and the numeric value is arbitrarily assigned.
@item @samp{6} @b{no-common-dialogue-portion(6)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_COMMON_DIALOGUE_PORTION})
This is a local value and the numeric value is arbitrarily assigned.
@end table

@table @asis
@item @samp{1281} @b{unrecognized-package-type}
@item @samp{1282} @b{incorrect-trans-portion}
@item @samp{1283} @b{badly-structured-trans-portion}
@item @samp{1284} @b{unassigned-responding-trans-id}
@item @samp{1285} @b{permission-to-release-problem}
@item @samp{1286} @b{resource-unavailable}
@end table

@table @asis
@item @samp{1} @b{unrecognized-package-type}
@item @samp{2} @b{incorrect-transaction-portion}
@item @samp{3} @b{badly-structured-transaction-portion}
@item @samp{4} @b{unassigned-responding-transaction-id}
@item @samp{5} @b{permission-to-release-problem}
@item @samp{6} @b{resource-unavailable}
@item @samp{7} @b{unrecognized-dialogue-portion-id}
@item @samp{8} @b{badly-structured-dialogue-portion}
@item @samp{9} @b{missing-dialogue-portion}
@item @samp{10} @b{inconsistent-dialogue-portion}
@end table

@item report-Cause
Specifies the SCCP return cause resulting in local provider abort.  It has one of the following
values:

@table @asis
@item @samp{00000000} @b{no-translations-for-address-of-such-nature(0)}
@item @samp{00000001} @b{no-translation-for-this-specific-address(1)}
@item @samp{00000010} @b{subsystem-congestion(2)}
@item @samp{00000011} @b{subsystem-failure(3)}
@item @samp{00000100} @b{unequipped-user(4)}
@item @samp{00000101} @b{mtp-failuire(5)}
@item @samp{00000110} @b{network-congestion(6)}
@item @samp{00000111} @b{sccp-unqualified(7)}
@item @samp{00001000} @b{error-in-message-transport(8)}
@item @samp{00001001} @b{error-in-local-processing(9)}
@item @samp{00001010} @b{destination-cannot-perform-reassembly(10)}
@item @samp{00001011} @b{sccp-failure(11)}
@item @samp{00001100} @b{hop-counter-violation(12)}
@item @samp{00001101} @b{segmentation-not-supported(13)}
@item @samp{00001110} @b{segmentation-failure(14)}
@end table

In addition, if the local SCCP provider is an ANSI SCCP provider,@footnote{Note that a GSM MAP and
ITU-T TCAP layer can be carried over an ANSI SCCP layer in North American applications of GSM MAP.
Note also that ANSI MAP can be carried over X.25 instead of SCCP.  Therefore, the network service
provider is not tied to the type of MAP carried or in the case of the inteface, the Mobile
Application package applied.} the SCCP return cause can also contain one of the following values:

@table @asis
@item @samp{11110111} @b{message-change-failure(247)}
@item @samp{11111000} @b{invalid-ins-routing-request(248)}
@item @samp{11111001} @b{invalid-isni-routing-request(249)}
@item @samp{11111010} @b{unauthorized-message(250)}
@item @samp{11111011} @b{message-incompatibility(251)}
@item @samp{11111100} @b{cannot-perform-isni-constrained-routing(252)}
@item @samp{11111101} @b{redundant-isni-constrained-routing-information(253)}
@item @samp{11111110} @b{unable-to-perform-isni-identification(254)}
@end table

@end vtable

@node GSM-Refuse-Result
@subsection GSM-Refuse-Result
@vindex GSM-Refuse-Result

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Refuse-Result} represents the information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Refuse()} function (@pxref{Refuse}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}).

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Refuse-Result}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{3}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab003,3,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Refuse-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context
Specifies the highest version alternate application context supported by the refusing mobile
application entity when refusal is due to @b{application-context-not-supported}.
@item refuse-Reason
This attribute provides the reason for refusal.  Its value can be one of the following:

@table @asis
@item @b{no-reason-given}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_REASON_GIVEN} @samp{0})
This reason is transmitted and is provided directly in a received @samp{map-refuse} dialogue PDU.
@item @b{invalid-destination-reference}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_DESTINATION_REFERENCE} @samp{1})
This reason is transmitted and is provided directly in a received @samp{map-refuse} dialogue PDU.
@item @b{invalid-originating-reference}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_ORIGINATING_REFERENCE} @samp{2})
This reason is transmitted and is provided directly in a received @samp{map-refuse} dialogue PDU.
@item @b{encapsulated-AC-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENCAPSULATED_AC_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{3})
This reason is transmitted and is provided directly in a received @samp{map-refuse} dialogue PDU.
This reason is not used in dialogues with an application context different from @var{secureTransportHandling}.
@item @b{transport-protection-not-adequate}
(@samp{MAP_T_TRANSPORT_PROTECTION_NOT_ADEQUATE} @samp{4})
This reason is transmitted and is provided directly in a received @samp{map-refuse} dialogue PDU.
This reason is not used in dialogues with an application context different from @var{secureTransportHandling}.
@item @b{remote-node-not-reachable}
(@samp{MAP_T_REMOTE_NODE_NOT_REACHABLE})
This reason is not transmitted and may not be specified as a @var{refuse-Reason} when calling @i{Refuse()}.
@item @b{application-context-not-supported}
This refuse reason is given if a TC-U-ABORT is received by the local Mobile Application Service
provider while an open request is pending and the Abort-Reason is ``application context not
supported''.
@item @b{potential-version-incompatibility}
(@samp{MAP_T_POTENTIAL_VERSION_INCOMPATIBILITY})
This refuse reason is given if a TC-P-ABORT is received by the local Mobile Application Service
provider while an open request is pending and the P-Abort cause is ``incorrect-transaction-portion''
or ``no-common-dialogue-portion''.
@item @b{secured-transport-not-possible}
(@samp{MAP_T_SECURED_TRANSPORT_NOT_POSSIBLE})
This reason is not transmitted.
@end table

@item specific-Information
This attribute provides user-specific information that is passed transparently between peer mobile
application service users as part of dialog establishment.
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@xref{Specific-Information}.

@end vtable

@node GSM-Release-Argument
@subsection GSM-Release-Argument
@vindex GSM-Release-Argument

@node GSM-Release-Result
@subsection GSM-Release-Result
@vindex GSM-Release-Result

@node GSM-Service-Argument
@subsection GSM-Service-Argument
@vindex GSM-Service-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Service-Argument} represents the information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}).

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Service-Argument}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{63}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab063,63,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Service-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context
@item destination-Reference
@item originating-Reference
@item specific-Information
This attribute provides user-specific information that is passed transparently between peer mobile
application service users as part of dialog establishment.
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable

@node GSM-Service-Error
@subsection GSM-Service-Error
@vindex GSM-Service-Error

An instance of concrete OM class @b{GSM-Service-Error} represents error information that is supplied
as a response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()}
function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a GSM service confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error},
@i{Service-Error}.  It defines no attributes of its own.

@vtable @var
@item problem

The superclass @var{problem} attribtue represents the GSM service @dfn{user-Error}.  Values for the
@var{problem} superclass attribute are defined as follows:

@itemize
@item Reject Errors

Reject
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
this GSM MAP package
and are described in
@ref{Reject Errors}.

@item Generic Errors

Generic
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
this GSM MAP package
and are described in
@ref{Generic Errors}.

@item Identification and Numbering Errors

Identification and Numbering
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Identification and Numbering Errors}.

@item Subscription Errors

Subscription
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Subscription Errors}.

@item Handover Errors

Handover
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Handover Errors}.

@item Operation and Maintenance Errors

Operation and Maintenance
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Operation and Maintenance Errors}.

@item Call Handling Errors

Call Handling
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Call Handling Errors}.

@item Any Time Interrogation Errors

Any Time Interrogation
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Any Time Interrogation Errors}.

@item Any Time Information Handling Errors

Any Time Information Handling
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Any Time Information Handling Errors}.

@item Supplementary Service Errors

Supplementary Service
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Supplementary Service Errors}.

@item Short Message Service Errors

Short Message Service
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
the GSM MAP Short Message Service services package
and are described in
@ref{Short Message Service Errors}.

@item Group Call Errors

Group Call
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Group Call Errors}.

@item Location Service Errors

Location Service
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Location Service Errors}.

@item Mobility Management Errors

Mobility Management
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Mobility Management Errors}.

@item Secure Transport Errors

Secure Transport
GSM-Service-Error problem values and parameter syntaxes are defined in
a future GSM MAP services package
and are described in
@ref{Secure Transport Errors}.

@end itemize

@item parameter
The superclasss @var{parameter} attribute, which may or may not be present, indicates the additional
information available with the service user error.  This information is contained in as an
@dfn{Object(Encoding)} or is defined by a Mobile Application Services package. @xref{GSM MAP
Errors}.

@end vtable

@ignore
The error parameter in a TC-U-ERROR indication primitives is mapped to the user error parameter in
the MAP confirm primitive of the service associated with the operation to which the error is
attached.

The user error parameter in MAP response primtives is mapped to the error parameter of the
TC-U-ERROR request primitive, except for ``initiating-release'' and ``resource-limitation'' which
are mapped to the problem code parameter of the TC-U-REJECT request primitive.

The following values of the user error parameter are mapped as follows to values of the TC problem
code parameter.  These values are generated by the MAP user.  This mapping is valid from the
TC-U-REJECT indication primitive to the MAP confirm service primitive and from the MAP response
service primitive to the TC-U-REJECT request primitive.

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .6
@item @i{MAP User Error} @tab @i{TC Problem Code}
@item @tab @i{invoke-problem(1)}
@item @b{resource-limitation} @tab @b{resource-limitation(3)}
@item @b{initiating-release} @tab @b{initiating-release(4)}
@end multitable
@end ignore


@node GSM-Service-Reject
@subsection GSM-Service-Reject
@vindex GSM-Service-Reject

An instance of concrete OM class @b{GSM-Service-Reject} represents error information that is
supplied as a response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the
@i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a @i{Result-Or-Argument}
result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a GSM service confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error},
@i{Service-Reject}.  It defines no attributes of its own.

@vtable @var
@item problem

Values for the @var{problem} superclass attribute (@pxref{Error}) represent provider errors and
values are defined as follows:

@table @asis
@item @b{duplicated-invoke-id}
(@samp{MAP_E_DUPLICATED_INVOKE_ID})
@item @b{not-supported-service}
(@samp{MAP_E_NOT_SUPPORTED_SERVICE})
@item @b{mistyped-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_E_MISTYPED_PARAMETER})
@item @b{resource-limitation}
(@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITATION})
@item @b{initiating-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_INITIATING_RELEASE})
That is, the peer has already initiated release of the dialogue and the service has to be released.
@item @b{unexpected-response-from-the-peer}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNEXPECTED_RESPONSE_FROM_THE_PEER})
@item @b{service-completion-failure}
(@samp{MAP_E_SERVICE_COMPLETION_FAILURE})
@item @b{no-response-from-the-peer}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_RESPONSE_FROM_THE_PEER})
@item @b{invalid-response-receceived}
(@samp{MAP_E_INVALID_RESPONSE_RECEIVED})
@end table

@item parameter
The superclasss @var{parameter} attribute, which may or may not be present, indicates the additional
information available with the service provider error.  This information is contained in as an
@dfn{Object(Encoding)} or is defined by a Mobile Application Services package.
@end vtable

@ignore
The following values of the TC problem code parameter of the TC-U-REJECT indication primtiive are
mapped as follows to values of the MAP Provider Error parameter of the MAP confirm primtive:

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .6
@item @i{TC Problem Code} @tab @i{MAP Provider Error}
@item @i{invoke-problem(1)}
@item @b{duplicate-invoke-id(0)} @tab @b{duplicate-invoke-id}
@item @b{unrecognised-operation(1)} @tab @b{service-not-supported}
@item @b{mistyped-parameter(2)} @tab @b{mistyped-parameter}
@end multitable

The following values of the problem code parameters of the TC-L-REJECT primitive are mapped to
values of the provider error paraemter of the MAP confirm primitive as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .6
@item @i{TC Problem Code} @tab @i{MAP Provider Error}
@item @i{return-result-problem(2)}
@item @b{return-result-unexpected(1)} @tab @b{unexpected-response-from-the-peer}
@item @i{return-error-problem(3)}
@item @b{return-error-unexpected(1)} @tab @b{unexpected-response-from-the-peer}
@end multitable
@end ignore

@node GSM-Service-Result
@subsection GSM-Service-Result
@vindex GSM-Service-Result

An intance of OM class @b{GSM-Service-Result} represents the information that is supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service
confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Service-Result},
@i{GSM-Close-Argument} and @i{GSM-Abort-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{59}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab059,59,OM Attributes of OM class @b{GSM-Service-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item specific-Information
This attribute provides user-specific information that is passed transparently between peer mobile
application service users as part of dialog establishment.
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information}.
@end vtable

@node GSM Data Types
@subsection GSM Data Types

@menu
* Access-Network-Signal-Info::
* Basic-Service-Code::
* Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI::
* EMLPP-Info::
* Ext-Basic-Service-Code::
* Extension-Container::
* External-Signal-Info::
* Ext-External-Signal-Info::
* HLR-List::
* Identity::
* IMSI-With-LMSI::
* LCS-Client-External-ID::
* MC-SS-Info::
* NAEA-Preferred-CI::
* PCS-Extensions::
* Private-Extension::
* Private-Extension-List::
* SLR-Arg-Extension-Container::
* SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions::
* Specific-Information::
* Subscriber-Identity::
@end menu

@node Access-Network-Signal-Info
@subsubsection Access-Network-Signal-Info
@vindex Access-Network-Signal-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info} represents access network signalling
information contained in an an-APDU.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionalyt
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{415}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab415,415,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item access-Network-Protocol-Id
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ts3g-48006}
(@samp{MAP_T_TS3G_48006} @samp{1})
@item @b{ts3g-25413}
(@samp{MAP_T_TS3G_25413} @samp{2})
@end table
If the sequence contains this parameter with any other value than the ones listed, the receiver
shall ignore the entire AccessNetworkSignalInfo sequence.
@item signal-Info
@code{LongSignalInfo :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2560))}  The value 2560 represents the maximum number
of octets that is available to carry a signle instance of the LongSignalInfo data type using White
Book SCCP with the maximum number of segments.  It takes into account the octets used by the lower
layers of the protocol, and other information elements that may be included in the same component.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Basic-Service-Code
@subsubsection Basic-Service-Code
@vindex Basic-Service-Code

An instance of the OM class
@b{Basic-Service-Code}
provides the specification of a basic mobile service code as a single byte octet string.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{102}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab102,102,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}}

The attributes of the OM class represent a choice and exactly one of the attributes must be present
in an instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @var
@item bearer-Service
@code{BearerServiceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
@item teleservice
@code{TeleserviceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
@end table

@node Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI
@subsubsection Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI
@vindex Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI

An instance of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI} represents a global cell id, a
service area id, or a local area id.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{422}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab422,422,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Fixed-Length
@code{CellGlobalIdOrServiceAreaIdFixedLength ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Refers to Cell Global
Identification or Service Area Identification defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  The internal structure is
defined as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country
code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit; bits 8765, mobile network code
2rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321, mobile network code 1st digit; bits
8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octet 4 and 5, Location Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008;
octet 6 and 7, Cell Identity (CI) value or Service Area Code (SAC) value according to 3GPP TS
23.003.
@item lai-Fixed-Length
@code{LAIFixedLength ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Refers to Location Area Identification in 3GPP TS
23.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st
digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit;
bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, Location
Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008.
@end vtable

@node EMLPP-Info
@subsubsection EMLPP-Info
@vindex EMLPP-Info

An instance of OM class @b{EMLPP-Info} represents the priority of an EMLPP call.

An instances of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{418}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab418,418,OM Attributes of OM class @b{EMLPP-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item maximum-Entitled-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item default-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Basic-Service-Code
@subsubsection Ext-Basic-Service-Code
@vindex Ext-Basic-Service-Code

An instance of the OM class
@b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}
provides the specification of an extensible basic mobile service code.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{412}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab412,412,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}}

The attributes of the OM class represent a choice and exactly one of the attributes must be present
in an instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @var
@item ext-Bearer-Service
@code{Ext-BearerServiceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))}  This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single bearer service, a group of bearer services, or all bearer services.  The
services are defined in 3GPP TS 22.002.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
plmn-specific bearer services, bits 87654321, defined by the HPLMN operator; rest of bearer
services, bit 8, 0 (ununsed); bits 7654321, group (bits 7654), and rate, if applicable (bits 321);
octets 2-5: reserved for future use.  If received the Ext-BearerServiceCode shall be treated according
to the exception handling defined for the operation that uses this type.  Ext-BearerServiceCode
includes all values defined for BearerServiceCode.
@item ext-Teleservice
@code{Ext-TeleserviceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))} This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single teleservice, group of teleservices, or all teleservices.  The services are
defined in GSM TS 22.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 87654321,
group (bits 8765) and specific service (bits 4321); octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  If
received, Ext-TeleserviceCode shall be treated according to the exception handling defined for the
operation that uses this type.  Ext-TeleserviceCode includes all values defined for TeleserviceCode.
@end table

@node Extension-Container
@subsubsection Extension-Container
@vindex Extension-Container

An instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container} represents the corresonding
@var{ExtensionContainer} of the GSM MAP.  This object is used to contain extension parameters that
are used by a number of GSM MAP mobile application services.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{41}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab041,41,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Extension-Container}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item private-Extension-List
This attribute is an optional list of private extensions.
@item pcs-Extensions
This attribute is an optional sequence of PCS extensions.
@end vtable

@node External-Signal-Info
@subsubsection External-Signal-Info
@vindex External-Signal-Info

An instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info} represents external signal information.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{423}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab423,423,OM Attributes of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item protocol-Id
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{gsm-0408}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSM_0408} @samp{1})
@item @b{gsm-0806}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSM_0806} @samp{2})
@item @b{gsm-bssmap}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSM_BSSMAP} @samp{3})
@item @b{ets-300102-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ETS_300102_1} @samp{4})
@end table
@item signal-Info
@code{SignalInfo ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..200))}  The value 200 represents the theoretical maximum
number of octets that is available to carry a single instance of the SignalInfo data type, without
requiring segmentation to cope with the network layer service.  However, the actual maximum size
available for an instance of the data type may be lower, especially when other information elements
have to be included in the same component.
Information about the internal structure is given in 3GPP TS 29.002 section 7.6.9.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
This attribute must not be used in version 2 application contexts.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-External-Signal-Info
@subsubsection Ext-External-Signal-Info
@vindex Ext-External-Signal-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-External-Signal-Info} represents extended external signal
information.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{424}.


@tabfig{xmap_tab424,424,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Ext-External-Signal-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Protocol-Id
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ets-300356}
(@samp{MAP_T_ETS_300356} @samp{1})
@end table
For sequences containing this parameter with any other value than the ones listed, the receiver
shall ignore the entire Ext-ExternalSignalInfo sequence.
@item signal-Info
@code{SignalInfo ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..200))}  The value 200 represents the theoretical maximum
number of octets that is available to carry a single instance of the SignalInfo data type, without
requiring segmentation to cope with the network layer service.  However, the actual maximum size
available for an instance of the data type may be lower, especially when other information elements
have to be included in the same component.
Information about the internal structure is given in 3GPP TS 29.002 section 7.6.9.10.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node HLR-List
@subsubsection HLR-List
@vindex HLR-List

An instance of @b{HLR-List} represents a list of HLR identities.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{421}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab421,421,OM Attributes of OM class @b{HLR-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item hlr-Id
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfHLR-Id}) instances of an hlr-Id attributes which is coded as an IMSI,
with the leading digits of IMSI, i.e. (MCC, MNC, leading digits of MSIN) forming HLR Id defined in
3GPP TS 23.003.
@end vtable

@node Identity
@subsubsection Identity
@vindex Identity

An instance of OM class @b{Identity} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{413}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab413,413,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Identity}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall exist in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item ismi-With-LMSI
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{IMSI-With-LMSI}.  @xref{IMSI-With-LMSI}.
@end vtable

@node IMSI-With-LMSI
@subsubsection IMSI-With-LMSI
@vindex IMSI-With-LMSI

An instance of OM class @b{IMSI-With-LMSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{414}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab414,414,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{IMSI-With-LMSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
A special value of @samp{00000000} indicates that the LMSI is not in use.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Client-External-ID
@subsubsection LCS-Client-External-ID
@vindex LCS-Client-External-ID

An instances of @b{LCS-Client-External-ID} represent the external identifier for an LCS client.

An instances of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{420}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab420,420,OM Attributes of OM class @b{LCS-Client-External-ID}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item external-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MC-SS-Info
@subsubsection MC-SS-Info
@vindex MC-SS-Info

An instance of OM class @b{MC-SS-Info} represents multicall bearer supplementary service
information.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attribtues listed in @tabref{417}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab417,417,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MC-SS-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item nbr-SB
@code{MaxMC-Bearers ::= INTEGER (2..7)}
@item nbr-User
@code{MC-Bearers ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node NAEA-Preferred-CI
@subsubsection NAEA-Preferred-CI
@vindex NAEA-Preferred-CI

An instance of OM class @b{NAEA-Preferred-CI} represents the North American Equal Access preferred
Carrier Identification.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{416}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab416,416,OM Attributes of OM class @b{NAEA-Preferred-CI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item naea-Preferred-CIC
@code{NAEA-CIC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} The internal structure is defined by the Carrier
Identification parameter in ANSI T1.113.3.  Carrier codes between @samp{000} and @samp{999} may be
encoded as 3 digits using @samp{000} to @samp{999}, or as 4 digits using @samp{0000} to @samp{0999}.
Carrier codes between @samp{1000} and @samp{9999} are encoded using 4 digits.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PCS-Extensions
@subsubsection PCS-Extensions
@vindex PCS-Extensions

An instances of OM class @b{PCS-Extensions} represents a sequence of PCS extensions each with an
ASN.1 encoding.  It is an optional attribute of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{42}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab042,42,OM Attributes of OM class @b{PCS-Extensions}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pcs-Extension
The @var{pcs-Extension} attribute consists of one or more ASN.1 encoded strings.  Each string
encoding is an element in a sequence of PCS extensions.
@end vtable

@node Private-Extension
@subsubsection Private-Extension
@vindex Private-Extension

An instance of OM class @b{Private-Extension} represents a single instance of private extension as
defined by the @var{MAP-EXTENSION} macro of GSM MAP.  Each private extension consists of a object
identifier that identifies the type of the extension and an optional encoding of the extension
value.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{39}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab039,39,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Private-Extension}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Type
The @var{ext-Type} attribute is an ASN.1 encoding of the extension type.
@item ext-Id
The @var{ext-Id} attribute is an object identifier that cannot exceed 16 octets in length and cannot
exceed 16 sub-identifiers.
@end vtable

@node Private-Extension-List
@subsubsection Private-Extension-List
@vindex Private-Extension-List

An instance of OM class @b{Private-Extension-List} represents a list of private extensions used as
an optional attribute of the OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  The list may contain between one and
ten private extensions.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{40}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab040,40,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Private-Extension-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item private-Extension
This attribute represents an instance of the @var{MAP-CONTAINTER} macro from the GSM MAP.  There may
be one to ten private extensions in an extension list.
@end vtable

@node SLR-Arg-Extension-Container
@subsubsection SLR-Arg-Extension-Container
@vindex SLR-Arg-Extension-Container

An instance of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container} represents an extension container for use
within the @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg} argument. @xref{Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{426}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab426,426,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item private-Extension-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Private-Extension-List}.
@xref{Private-Extension-List}.
@item slr-Arg-PCS-Extensions
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions}.
@xref{SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions
@subsubsection SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions
@vindex SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions

An instance of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions} represents PCS extensions for use within the
@b{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container}. @xref{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{427}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab427,427,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-PCS-Extensions}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item na-ESRK-Request
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Specific-Information
@subsubsection Specific-Information
@vindex Specific-Information

An instance of OM class @b{Specific-Information} represents additional specific extensions or
private extensions added to a GSM MAP dialogue.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{44}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab044,44,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Specific-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extensions
This optional attribute is zero or more instances of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.  This attribute may only be used with GSM MAP version 3 dialogues and is
not applicable to version 1 or 2 dialogues.
@end vtable

@node Subscriber-Identity
@subsubsection Subscriber-Identity
@vindex Subscriber-Identity

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{410}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attributes shall be present in an instance of this
object.

@tabfig{xmap_tab410,410,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-Identity}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node GSM MAP Services Packages
@section GSM MAP Services Packages

@menu
* GSM Mobile Service Package::
* GSM Operations and Maintenance Package::
* GSM Call Handling Package::
* GSM Supplementary Service Package::
* GSM Short Message Service Package::
* GSM Group Call Package::
* GSM Location Service Package::
@end menu

@node GSM Mobile Service Package
@subsection GSM Mobile Service Package

@menu

Operation Arguments and Results:

  Location registration operations:

* Update-Location-Arg::
* Update-Location-Res::
* Cancel-Location-Arg::
* Cancel-Location-Res::
* Purge-MS-Arg::
* Purge-MS-Res::
* Send-Identification-Arg::
* Send-Identification-Res::

  GPRS location registration operations:

* Update-Gprs-Location-Arg::
* Update-Gprs-Location-Res::

  Subscriber enquiry operations:

* Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg::
* Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res::

  Any time information equiry operations:

* Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg::
* Any-Time-Interrogation-Res::

  Any time information handling operations:

* Any-Time-Modification-Arg::
* Any-Time-Modification-Res::
* Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg::
* Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res::
  
  Subscriber data modification notification operations:
  
* Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg::
* Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res::
  
  Handover operations
  
* Prepare-HO-Arg::
* Prepare-HO-Res::
* Send-End-Signal-Arg::
* Send-End-Signal-Res::
* Process-Access-Signalling-Arg::
* Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg::
* Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg::
* Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res::
  
  Authentication management operations:
  
* Send-Authentication-Info-Arg::
* Send-Authentication-Info-Res::
* Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg::
* Authentication-Failure-Report-Res::

  IMEI management operations:

* Check-IMEI-Arg::
* Check-IMEI-Res::

  Subscriber management operations:

* Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg::
* Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res::
* Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg::
* Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res::

  Fault recovery operations:

* Reset-Arg::
* Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg::
* Restore-Data-Arg::
* Restore-Data-Res::

  GPRS location information retreival operations:

* Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg::
* Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res::

  Failure reporting operations:

* Failure-Report-Arg::
* Failure-Report-Res::

  GPRS notification operations:

* Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg::
* Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res::

  Mobility management operations:

* Note-MM-Event-Arg::
* Note-MM-Event-Res::

Parameter classes:

* Add-Info::
* Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms::
* AMBR::
* APN-Configuration-Profile::
* APN-Configuration::
* Authentication-Quintuplet::
* Authentication-Set-List::
* Authentication-Triplet::
* Basic-Service-Criteria::
* Basic-Service-List::
* Bearer-Service-List::
* BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info::
* BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List::
* Call-Barring-Data::
* Call-Forwarding-Data::
* CAMEL-Subscription-Info::
* Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information::
* Codec-List::
* Context-Id-List::
* CSG-Subscription-Data-List::
* CSG-Subscription-Data::
* CUG-Feature-List::
* CUG-Feature::
* CUG-Info::
* CUG-Subscription-List::
* CUG-Subscription::
* Current-Security-Context::
* D-CSI::
* Destination-Number-Criteria::
* Destination-Number-Length-List::
* Destination-Number-List::
* DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List::
* DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium::
* EPS-Authentication-Set-List::
* EPS-AV::
* EPS-Data-List::
* EPS-Info::
* EPS-QoS-Subscribed::
* EPS-Subscription-Data::
* EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw::
* Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List::
* Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List::
* Ext-Call-Bar-Info::
* Ext-Call-Barring-Feature::
* Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE::
* External-Client-List::
* External-Client::
* Ext-External-Client-List::
* Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE::
* Ext-Forw-Feature-List::
* Ext-Forw-Feature::
* Ext-Forw-Info::
* Ext-SS-Data::
* Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE::
* Ext-SS-Info-List::
* Ext-SS-Info::
* GMLC-List::
* GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List::
* GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data::
* GPRS-CSI::
* GPRS-Data-List::
* GPRS-MS-Class::
* GPRS-Subscription-Data::
* GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw::
* GSM-Security-Context-Data::
* LCS-Information::
* LCS-Privacy-Class::
* LCS-Privacy-Exception-List::
* Location-Area::
* Location-Information-GPRS::
* Location-Information::
* LSA-Data-List::
* LSA-Data::
* LSA-Identity-List::
* LSA-Information::
* LSA-Information-Withdraw::
* M-CSI::
* MG-CSI::
* MNP-Info-Res::
* Mobility-Triggers::
* Modification-Request-For-CB-Info::
* Modification-Request-For-CF-Info::
* Modification-Request-For-CSI::
* Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data::
* Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data::
* MOLR-Class::
* MOLR-List::
* MSISDN-BS-List::
* MSISDN-BS::
* MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List::
* MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria::
* O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List::
* O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria::
* O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List::
* O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data::
* O-Cause-Value-Criteria::
* O-CSI::
* ODB-Data::
* ODB-Info::
* Paging-Area::
* PDN-GW-Identity::
* PDN-GW-Update::
* PDP-Context-Info-List::
* PDP-Context-Info::
* PDP-Context::
* PLMN-Client-List::
* PS-Subscriber-State::
* Quintuplet-List::
* Radio-Resource-List::
* Radio-Resource::
* Relocation-Number-List::
* Relocation-Number::
* Requested-Info::
* Requested-Subscription-Info::
* Resynchronisation-Info::
* Selected-UMTS-Algorithms::
* Service-Type-List::
* Service-Type::
* SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info::
* SGSN-Capability::
* SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List::
* SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data::
* SMS-CSI::
* SS-Camel-Data::
* SS-CSI::
* SS-Event-List::
* Subscriber-Data::
* Subscriber-Info::
* Subscriber-State::
* Super-Charger-Info::
* Supported-Codecs-List::
* T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List::
* T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria::
* T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List::
* T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data::
* T-Cause-Value-Criteria::
* T-CSI::
* Teleservice-List::
* TPDU-Type-Criterion::
* Triplet-List::
* UESBI-Iu::
* UMTS-Security-Context-Data::
* VBS-Data-List::
* VGCS-Data-List::
* Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info::
* VLR-Capability::
* Voice-Broadcast-Data::
* Voice-Group-Call-Data::
* Zone-Code-List::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg}
@item @b{Any-Time-Modification-Arg}
@item @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg}
@item @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg}
@item @b{Cancel-Location-Arg}
@item @b{Check-IMEI-Arg}
@item @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg}
@item @b{Failure-Report-Arg}
@item @b{Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg}
@item @b{Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg}
@item @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg}
@item @b{Note-MM-Event-Arg}
@item @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg}
@item @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg}
@item @b{Prepare-HO-Arg}
@item @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg}
@item @b{Process-Access-Signalling-Arg}
@item @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg}
@item @b{Purge-MS-Arg}
@item @b{Reset-Arg}
@item @b{Restore-Data-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Arg}
@item @b{Send-End-Signal-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Identification-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg}
@item @b{Update-Gprs-Location-Arg}
@item @b{Update-Location-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Res}
@item @b{Any-Time-Modification-Res}
@item @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res}
@item @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Res}
@item @b{Cancel-Location-Res}
@item @b{Check-IMEI-Res}
@item @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res}
@item @b{Failure-Report-Res}
@item @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res}
@item @b{MNP-Info-Res}
@item @b{Note-MM-Event-Res}
@item @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res}
@item @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res}
@item @b{Prepare-HO-Res}
@item @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res}
@item @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res}
@item @b{Purge-MS-Res}
@item @b{Restore-Data-Res}
@item @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Res}
@item @b{Send-End-Signal-Res}
@item @b{Send-Identification-Res}
@item @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res}
@item @b{Update-Gprs-Location-Res}
@item @b{Update-Location-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Add-Info
@subsubsection Add-Info
@vindex Add-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Add-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{124}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab125,125,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Add-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imeisv
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity and
Software Version Number (SVN) defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  If the SVN is not present, the last octet
shall contain digit 0 and a filler.  If present, the SVN shall be included in the last octet.
@item skip-Subscriber-Data-Update
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms
@subsubsection Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms
@vindex Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms

An instance of OM class @b{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{148}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab148,148,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item integrity-Protection-Algorithm
@code{PermittedIntegrityProtectionAlgorithms ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))} Octets contain a
complete PermittedIntegrityProtectionAlgorithms data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded
according to the encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed,
in the least significant bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item encryption-Algorithm
@code{PermittedEncryptionAlgorithm ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))} Octets contain a complete
PermittedEncryptionAlgorithms data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the
encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed, in the least
significant bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node AMBR
@subsubsection AMBR
@vindex AMBR

An instance of OM class @b{AMBR} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{183}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab183,183,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{AMBR}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL
@code{Bandwidth ::= INTEGER} Bits per second.
@item max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL
@code{Bandwidth ::= INTEGER} Bits per second.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg
@subsubsection Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg
@vindex Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{288}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab288,288,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item subscriber-Identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity}.  @xref{Subscriber-Identity}.
@item requested-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Requested-Info}.  @xref{Requested-Info}.
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Interrogation-Res
@subsubsection Any-Time-Interrogation-Res
@vindex Any-Time-Interrogation-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{289}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab289,289,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Time-Interrogation-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item subscriber-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Info}.  @xref{Subscriber-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Modification-Arg
@subsubsection Any-Time-Modification-Arg
@vindex Any-Time-Modification-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Modification-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{299}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab299,299,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Time-Modification-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item subscriber-Identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity}.  @xref{Subscriber-Identity}.
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item modification-Request-For-CF-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-CF-Info}.
@xref{Modification-Request-For-CF-Info}.
@item modification-Request-For-CB-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-CB-Info}.
@xref{Modification-Request-For-CB-Info}.
@item modification-Request-For-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-CSI}.
@xref{Modification-Request-For-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item modification-Request-For-ODB-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data}.
@xref{Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data}.
@item modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data}.
@xref{Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Modification-Res
@subsubsection Any-Time-Modification-Res
@vindex Any-Time-Modification-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Modification-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{300}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab300,300,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Timer-Modification-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Info-For-CSE
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE}.
@xref{Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE}.
@item camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item odb-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Info}.  @xref{ODB-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg
@subsubsection Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg
@vindex Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{290}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab290,290,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item subscriber-Identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity}.  @xref{Subscriber-Identity}.
@item requested-Subscription-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Requested-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{Requested-Subscription-Info}.
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res
@subsubsection Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res
@vindex Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{291}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab291,291,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Any-Time-Subscription-Interrogation-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Forwarding-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Forwarding-Data}.
@xref{Call-Forwarding-Data}.
@item call-Barring-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Data}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Data}.
@item odb-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Info}.  @xref{ODB-Info}.
@item camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@item supported-VLR-CAMEL-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item supported-SGSN-CAMEL-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs-In-VLR
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs-In-SGSN
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item msisdn-BS-List
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@end vtable

@node APN-Configuration-Profile
@subsubsection APN-Configuration-Profile
@vindex APN-Configuration-Profile

An instance of OM class @b{APN-Configuration-Profile} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{179}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab179,179,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{APN-Configuration-Profile}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item default-Context
@code{ContextID ::= INTEGER(1..50)}
@item complete-Data-List-Included
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item eps-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-Data-List}.  @xref{EPS-Data-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node APN-Configuration
@subsubsection APN-Configuration
@vindex APN-Configuration

An instance of OM class @b{APN-Configuration} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{181}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab181,181,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{APN-Configuration}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item context-Id
@code{ContextID ::= INTEGER(1..50)}
@item served-Party-IP-Address
@code{PDP-Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..16))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.  The
possible values are: 1-7 octets X.25 address type, 4 octets IPv4 address type, 16 octets IPv6
address type.
@item apn
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item eps-Qos-Subscribed
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-QoS-Subscribed}.  @xref{EPS-QoS-Subscribed}.
@item pdn-Gw-Identity
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PDN-GW-Identity}.  @xref{PDN-GW-Identity}.
@item pdn-Gw-Allocation-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{static}
(@samp{MAP_T_STATIC} @samp{0})
@item @b{dynamic}
(@samp{MAP_T_DYNAMIC} @samp{1})
@end table
@item vplmn-Address-Allowed
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item charging-Characteristics
@code{ChargingCharacteristics ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS
32.215.
@item ambr
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{AMBR}.  @xref{AMBR}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{140}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab140,140,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item failure-Cause
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{wrong-user-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_WRONG_USER_RESPONSE} @samp{0})
@item @b{wrong-network-signature}
(@samp{MAP_T_WRONG_NETWORK_SIGNATURE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item re-attempt
A boolean value indicating whether reattempt should be performed.
@item access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{call}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{emergency-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_CALL} @samp{1})
@item @b{location-updating}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_UPDATING} @samp{2})
@item @b{supplementary-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPLEMENTARY_SERVICE} @samp{3})
@item @b{short-message}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHORT_MESSAGE} @samp{4})
@item @b{gprs-attach}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_ATTACH} @samp{5})
@item @b{routing-area-updating}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROUTING_AREA_UPDATING} @samp{6})
@item @b{service-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVICE_REQUEST} @samp{7})
@item @b{pdp-context-activation}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT_ACTIVATION} @samp{8})
@item @b{pdp-context-deactivation}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT_DEACTIVATION} @samp{9})
@item @b{gprs-detach}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_DETACH} @samp{10})
@end table
@item rand
@code{RAND ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item vlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of a VLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the VLR.
@item sgsn-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an SGSN.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the SGSN.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Failure-Report-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Failure-Report-Res
@vindex Authentication-Failure-Report-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{141}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab141,141,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Quintuplet
@subsubsection Authentication-Quintuplet
@vindex Authentication-Quintuplet

An instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Quintuplet} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{136}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab136,136,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Quintuplet}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item rand
@code{RAND ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item xres
@code{XRES ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))}
@item ck
@code{CK ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item ik
@code{IK ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item autn
@code{AUTN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Set-List
@subsubsection Authentication-Set-List
@vindex Authentication-Set-List

An instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Set-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{132}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attributes shall be present in an instance of this
object.

@tabfig{xmap_tab132,132,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Set-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item triplet-List
@code{TripleList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE(1..5) OF AuthenticationTriplet}
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Triplet-List}.  @xref{Triplet-List}.
@item quintuplet-List
@code{QuintupletList ::= SEQUENCE SIZE(1..5) OF AuthenticationQuintuplet}
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Quintuplet-List}.  @xref{Quintuplet-List}.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Triplet
@subsubsection Authentication-Triplet
@vindex Authentication-Triplet

An instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Triplet} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{135}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab135,135,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Triplet}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item rand
@code{RAND ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item sres
@code{SRES ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}
@item kc
@code{KC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Basic-Service-Criteria
@subsubsection Basic-Service-Criteria
@vindex Basic-Service-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{251}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab251,251,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Basic-Service-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Basic-Service-Code
One to five (@code{maxNumOfCamelBasicServiceCriteria}) instances of OM class
@b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@end vtable

@node Basic-Service-List
@subsubsection Basic-Service-List
@vindex Basic-Service-List

An instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{230}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab230,230,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Basic-Service-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Basic-Service-Code
One to seventy (@code{maxNumOfBasicServices}) instances of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@end vtable

@node Bearer-Service-List
@subsubsection Bearer-Service-List
@vindex Bearer-Service-List

An instance of OM class @b{Bearer-Service-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{198}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab198,198,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Bearer-Service-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Bearer-Service-Code
One to fifty instances of @code{Ext-BearerServiceCode}.

@code{Ext-BearerServiceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))}  This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single bearer service, a group of bearer services, or all bearer services.  The
services are defined in 3GPP TS 22.002.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
plmn-specific bearer services, bits 87654321, defined by the HPLMN operator; rest of bearer
services, bit 8, 0 (ununsed); bits 7654321, group (bits 7654), and rate, if applicable (bits 321);
octets 2-5: reserved for future use.  If received the Ext-BearerServiceCode shall be treated according
to the exception handling defined for the operation that uses this type.  Ext-BearerServiceCode
includes all values defined for BearerServiceCode.
@end vtable

@node BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info
@subsubsection BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info
@vindex BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info

An instance of OM class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{152}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab152,152,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item bssmap-Service-Handover
@code{BSSMAP-ServiceHandover ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to the Service
Handover information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List
@subsubsection BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List
@vindex BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List

An instance of OM class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{151}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab151,151,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item bssmap-Service-Handover-Info
@end vtable

@node Call-Barring-Data
@subsubsection Call-Barring-Data
@vindex Call-Barring-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{296}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab296,296,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Barring-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Barring-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@xref{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@item password
@code{Password ::= NumericString (FROM (0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9)) (SIZE(4))}
@item wrong-Password-Attempts-Counter
@code{WrongPasswordAttemptsCounter ::= INTEGER(0..4)}
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Call-Forwarding-Data
@subsubsection Call-Forwarding-Data
@vindex Call-Forwarding-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Forwarding-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{295}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab295,295,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Forwarding-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.  @xref{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CAMEL-Subscription-Info
@subsubsection CAMEL-Subscription-Info
@vindex CAMEL-Subscription-Info

An instance of OM class @b{CAMEL-Subscription-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{298}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab298,298,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-CSI}.  @xref{O-CSI}.
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item d-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{D-CSI}.  @xref{D-CSI}.
@item t-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-CSI}.  @xref{T-CSI}.
@item t-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item vt-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-CSI}.  @xref{T-CSI}.
@item vt-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item tif-CSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item tif-CSI-Notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item gprs-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-CSI}.  @xref{GPRS-CSI}.
@item mo-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item ss-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-CSI}.  @xref{SS-CSI}.
@item m-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{M-CSI}.  @xref{M-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item specific-CSI-Deleted-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{ss-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{tif-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_TIF_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mo-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_SMS_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{m-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_M_CSI} @samp{6})
@item @b{gprs-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_CSI} @samp{7})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{8})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{9})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{10})
@item @b{o-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_IM_CSI} @samp{11})
@item @b{d-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_IM_CSI} @samp{12})
@item @b{vt-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_IM_CSI} @samp{13})
@end table
@item mt-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item mt-sms-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item mg-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MG-CSI}.  @xref{MG-CSI}.
@item o-IM-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-CSI}.  @xref{O-CSI}.
@item o-IM-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item d-IM-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{D-CSI}.  @xref{D-CSI}.
@item vt-IM-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-CSI}.  @xref{T-CSI}.
@item vt-IM-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criterial-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@end vtable

@node Cancel-Location-Arg
@subsubsection Cancel-Location-Arg
@vindex Cancel-Location-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Cancel-Location-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{126}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab126,126,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Cancel-Location-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Identity}.  @xref{Identity}.
@item cancellation-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-procedure}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_PROCEDURE} @samp{0})
@item @b{subscription-withdraw}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUBSCRIPTION_WITHDRAW} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item type-Of-Update
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sgsn-change}
(@samp{MAP_T_SGSN_CHANGE} @samp{0})
@item @b{mme-change}
(@samp{MAP_T_MME_CHANGE} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Cancel-Location-Res
@subsubsection Cancel-Location-Res
@vindex Cancel-Location-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Cancel-Location-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{127}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab127,127,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Cancel-Location-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Check-IMEI-Arg
@subsubsection Check-IMEI-Arg
@vindex Check-IMEI-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Check-IMEI-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{171}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab171,171,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Check-IMEI-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imei
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  The last octet shall contain digit 0 and a filler.
@item requested-Equipment-Info
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{equipment-status}
(@samp{MAP_T_EQUIPMENT_STATUS} @samp{0})
@item @b{bmuef}
(@samp{MAP_T_BMUEF} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Check-IMEI-Res
@subsubsection Check-IMEI-Res
@vindex Check-IMEI-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Check-IMEI-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{172}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab172,172,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Check-IMEI-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item equipment-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{white-listed}
(@samp{MAP_T_WHITE_LISTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{black-listed}
(@samp{MAP_T_BLACK_LISTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{grey-listed}
(@samp{MAP_T_GREY_LISTED} @samp{2})
@end table
@item bmuef
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{UESBI-Iu}.  @xref{UESBI-Iu}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information
@subsubsection Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information
@vindex Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information

An instance of OM class @b{Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{156}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab156,156,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Chosen-Radio-Resource-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item chosen-Channel-Info
@code{ChosenChannelInfo ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to the Chosen Channel
information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item chosen-Speech-Version
@code{ChosenSpeechVersion ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to the Speech
Version (chosen) information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Codec-List
@subsubsection Codec-List
@vindex Codec-List

An instance of OM class @b{Codec-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{161}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab161,161,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Codec-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item codec1
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec2
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec3
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec4
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec5
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec6
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec7
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item codec8
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Context-Id-List
@subsubsection Context-Id-List
@vindex Context-Id-List

An instance of OM class @b{Context-Id-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{227}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab227,227,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Context-Id-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item context-Id
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfPDP-Contexts}) instances of ContextID which is an Integer value between
one and 50.  @code{ContextID ::= INTEGER(1..50)}
@end vtable

@node CSG-Subscription-Data-List
@subsubsection CSG-Subscription-Data-List
@vindex CSG-Subscription-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{176}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab176,176,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item csg-Subscription-Data
Between one and fifty instances of the OM Class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data}.
@xref{CSG-Subscription-Data}.
@end vtable

@node CSG-Subscription-Data
@subsubsection CSG-Subscription-Data
@vindex CSG-Subscription-Data

An instance of OM class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{177}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab177,177,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item csg-Id
@code{CSG-Id ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(27))} Coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item expiration-Date
@code{Time ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))} Octets are coded according to IETF RFC 3588.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Feature-List
@subsubsection CUG-Feature-List
@vindex CUG-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{212}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab212,212,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cug-Feature
One to @code{maxNumOfExt-BasicServiceGroups} instances of OM Class @b{CUG-Feature}.  @xref{CUG-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Feature
@subsubsection CUG-Feature
@vindex CUG-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{408}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab408,408,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item preferential-CUG-Indicator
@code{CUG-Index ::= INTEGER(0..32767)}  The internal structure is defined in ETS 300 138.
@item inter-CUG-Restrictions
@code{InterCUG-Restrictions ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}  Bits 876543, 000000 (unused); bits 21, 00,
CUG only facilities; 01, CUG with outgoing access; 10, CUG with incoming access; 11, CUG with both
outgoing and incoming access.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Info
@subsubsection CUG-Info
@vindex CUG-Info

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{209}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab209,209,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cug-Subscription-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Subscription-List}.  @xref{CUG-Subscription-List}.
@item cug-Feature-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Feature-List}.  @xref{CUG-Feature-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Subscription-List
@subsubsection CUG-Subscription-List
@vindex CUG-Subscription-List

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Subscription-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{210}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab210,210,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Subscription-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cug-Subscription
One to ten instances of OM class @b{CUG-Subscription}.  @xref{CUG-Subscription}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Subscription
@subsubsection CUG-Subscription
@vindex CUG-Subscription

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Subscription} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{211}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab211,211,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Subscription}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cug-Index
@code{CUG-Index ::= INTEGER(0..32767)}  The internal structure is defined in ETS 300 138.
@item cug-Interlock
@code{CUG-Interlock ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}
@item intra-CUG-Options
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-cug-restrictions}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_CUG_RESTRICTIONS} @samp{0})
@item @b{cug-ic-call-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_CUG_IC_CALL_BARRED} @samp{1})
@item @b{cug-og-call-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_CUG_OG_CALL_BARRED} @samp{2})
@end table
@item basic-Service-Group-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Current-Security-Context
@subsubsection Current-Security-Context
@vindex Current-Security-Context

An instance of OM class @b{Current-Security-Context} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{137}.
The OM class represent a choice and exactly one attribute shall appear in an instance of this class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab137,137,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Current-Security-Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gsm-Security-Context-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GSM-Security-Context-Data}.
@xref{GSM-Security-Context-Data}.
@item umts-Security-Context-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{UMTS-Security-Context-Data}.
@xref{UMTS-Security-Context-Data}.
@end vtable

@node D-CSI
@subsubsection D-CSI
@vindex D-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{D-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{236}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab236,236,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{D-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item dp-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List}.
@xref{DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List}.
@item camel-Capability-Handling
@code{CamelCapabilityHandling ::= INTEGER(1..16)} Value 1, CAMEL phase 1; value 2, CAMEL phase 2;
value 3, CAMEL phase 3; value 4, CAMEL phase 4.  Receiption of values greater than 4 shall be
treated as CAMEL phase 4.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg
@subsubsection Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg
@vindex Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{224}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab224,224,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item basic-Service-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-List}.  @xref{Basic-Service-List}.
@item ss-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-List}.  @xref{SS-List}.
@item roaming-Restriction-Due-To-Unsupported-Feature
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item regional-Subscription-Identifier
@code{ZoneCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Internal structure is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item vbs-Group-Indication
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item vgcs-Group-Indication
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item camel-Subscription-Info-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item gprs-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}.
@xref{GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}.
@item roaming-Restricted-In-Sgsn-Due-To-Unsupported-Feature
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item lsa-Information-Withdraw
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LSA-Information-Withdraw}.
@xref{LSA-Information-Withdraw}.
@item gmlc-List-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ist-Information-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item specific-CSI-Withdraw
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{ss-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{tif-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_TIF_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mo-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_SMS_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{m-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_M_CSI} @samp{6})
@item @b{gprs-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_CSI} @samp{7})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{8})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{9})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{10})
@item @b{o-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_IM_CSI} @samp{11})
@item @b{d-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_IM_CSI} @samp{12})
@item @b{vt-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_IM_CSI} @samp{13})
@end table
@item charging-Characteristics-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item stn-sr-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item eps-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}.
@xref{EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}.
@item apn-oi-replacement-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csg-Subscription-Deleted
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res
@subsubsection Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res
@vindex Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{231}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab231,231,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Delete-Subscriber-Data-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item regional-Subscription-Response
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{network-node-area-restricted}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_NODE_AREA_RESTRICTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{too-many-zone-codes}
(@samp{MAP_T_TOO_MANY_ZONE_CODES} @samp{1})
@item @b{zone-codes-conflict}
(@samp{MAP_T_ZONE_CODES_CONFLICT} @samp{2})
@item @b{regional-subsc-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGIONAL_SUBSC_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Destination-Number-Criteria
@subsubsection Destination-Number-Criteria
@vindex Destination-Number-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{248}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab248,248,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Destination-Number-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item match-Type
an enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{inhibiting}
(@samp{MAP_T_INHIBITING} @samp{0})
@item @b{enabling}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENABLING} @samp{1})
@end table
@item destination-Number-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-List}.
@xref{Destination-Number-List}.
@item destination-Number-Length-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-Length-List}.
@xref{Destination-Number-Length-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Destination-Number-Length-List
@subsubsection Destination-Number-Length-List
@vindex Destination-Number-Length-List

An instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-Length-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{250}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab250,250,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Destination-Number-Length-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item destination-Number-Length
One to three (@code{maxNumOfCamelDestinationNumberLengths}) instances of number lengths.
@end vtable

@node Destination-Number-List
@subsubsection Destination-Number-List
@vindex Destination-Number-List

An instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{249}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab249,249,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Destination-Number-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item destination-Number
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelDestinationNumbers}) instances of an ISDN address string.
@end vtable

@node DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List
@subsubsection DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List
@vindex DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List

An instance of OM class @b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{237}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab237,237,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criteria-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item dp-Analysed-Info-Criterium
One to ten (@code{maxMumOfDP-AnalysedInfoCriteria}) instances of OM class
@b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium}.
@xref{DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium}.
@end vtable

@node DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium
@subsubsection DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium
@vindex DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium

An instance of OM class @b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{238}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab238,238,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{DP-Analysed-Info-Criterium}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item dialed-Number
An ISDN Address String.
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item default-Call-Handling
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{release-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_CALL} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-Authentication-Set-List
@subsubsection EPS-Authentication-Set-List
@vindex EPS-Authentication-Set-List

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-Authentication-Set-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{169}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab169,169,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-Authentication-Set-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item epc-AV
One to five instances of OM Class @b{EPS-AV}.  @xref{EPS-AV}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-AV
@subsubsection EPS-AV
@vindex EPS-AV

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-AV} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{170}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab170,170,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-AV}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item rand
@code{RAND ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item xres
@code{XRES ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))}
@item autn
@code{AUTN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item kasme
@code{KASME ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-Data-List
@subsubsection EPS-Data-List
@vindex EPS-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{180}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab180,180,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item apn-Configuration
One to fifty instancs of OM Class @b{APN-Configuration}.  @xref{APN-Configuration}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-Info
@subsubsection EPS-Info
@vindex EPS-Info

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{144}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall exist in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab144,144,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdn-Gw-Update
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PDN-GW-Update}.  @xref{PDN-GW-Update}.
@item isr-Information
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-mme}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_MME} @samp{0})
@item @b{cancel-sgsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_CANCEL_SGSN} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node EPS-QoS-Subscribed
@subsubsection EPS-QoS-Subscribed
@vindex EPS-QoS-Subscribed

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-QoS-Subscribed} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{182}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab182,182,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-QoS-Subscribed}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item qos-Class-Identifier
@code{QoS-Class-Identifier ::= INTEGER(1..9)} Values are defined in 3GPP TS 29.212.
@item arp
@code{ARP ::= OCTET STRING} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.272.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-Subscription-Data
@subsubsection EPS-Subscription-Data
@vindex EPS-Subscription-Data

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{178}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab178,178,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item apn-oi-Replacement
@code{APN-OI-Replacement ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(9..100))}  Octets are coded as APN Operator
Identifier according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item rfsp-Id
@code{RFSP-ID ::= INTEGER(1..256)}
@item ambr
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{AMBR}.  @xref{AMBR}.
@item apn-Configuration-Profile
An optional instance of OM Class @b{APN-Configuration-Profile}. @xref{APN-Configuration-Profile}.
@item stn-sr
An ISDN address string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
@subsubsection EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
@vindex EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw

An instance of OM class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{226}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab226,226,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item all-EPS-Data
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item context-Id-List
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Context-Id-List}.  @xref{Context-Id-List}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List
@subsubsection Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List
@vindex Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{419}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab419,419,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Basic-Service-Code
One to thirty-two (@code{maxNumOfExt-BasicServiceGroups}) instances of OM class
@b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List
@subsubsection Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List
@vindex Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{207}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab207,207,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Call-Barring-Feature
One to @code{maxNumOfExt-BasicServiceGroups} instances of OM Class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Feature}.  @xref{Ext-Call-Barring-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Call-Bar-Info
@subsubsection Ext-Call-Bar-Info
@vindex Ext-Call-Bar-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{206}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab206,206,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item call-Barring-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@xref{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Call-Barring-Feature
@subsubsection Ext-Call-Barring-Feature
@vindex Ext-Call-Barring-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{208}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab208,208,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE
@subsubsection Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE
@vindex Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{312}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab312,312,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item call-Barring-Feature-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@xref{Ext-Call-Bar-Feature-List}.
@item password
@code{Password ::= NumericString (FROM (0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9)) (SIZE(4))}
@item wrong-Password-Attempts-Counter
@code{WrongPasswordAttemptsCounter ::= INTEGER(0..4)}
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node External-Client-List
@subsubsection External-Client-List
@vindex External-Client-List

An instance of OM class @b{External-Client-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{216}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab216,216,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{External-Client-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item external-Client
One to five instances of OM Class @b{External-Client}.  @xref{External-Client}.
@end vtable

@node External-Client
@subsubsection External-Client
@vindex External-Client

An instance of OM class @b{External-Client} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{409}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab409,409,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{External-Client}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item client-Identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-External-ID}.  @xref{LCS-Client-External-ID}.
@item gmlc-Restriction
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{gmlc-list}
(@samp{MAP_T_GMLC_LIST} @samp{0})
@item @b{home-country}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_COUNTRY} @samp{1})
@end table
@item notification-To-MS-User
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{notify-location-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{notify-and-verify-location-allowed-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_NO_REPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{notify-and-verity-location-allowed-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{location-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-External-Client-List
@subsubsection Ext-External-Client-List
@vindex Ext-External-Client-List

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-External-Client-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{218}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab218,218,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-External-Client-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-External-Client
One to thirty-five instances of OM class @b{External-Client}.  @xref{External-Client}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE
@subsubsection Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE
@vindex Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{311}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab311,311,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item forwarding-Feature-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.
@xref{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Forw-Feature-List
@subsubsection Ext-Forw-Feature-List
@vindex Ext-Forw-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{204}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab204,204,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Forw-Feature
One to @code{maxNumOfExt-BasicServiceGroups} instances of OM Class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature}.
@xref{Ext-Forw-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Forw-Feature
@subsubsection Ext-Forw-Feature
@vindex Ext-Forw-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{205}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab205,205,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item forwarded-To-Number
An ISDN Address String. @xref{String(Address)}.
@item forwarded-To-Subaddress
An ISDN Subaddress String. @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item forwarding-Options
@code{Ext-ForwOptions ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))} Octet 1, bit 8, notification to forwarding
party: 0, no notification, 1 notification; bit 7, redirecting presentation: 0, no presentation, 1,
presentation; bit 6, notification to calling party: 0, no notification, 1, notification; bit 5, 0
(unused); bits 43, forwarding reason: 00, ms not reachable, 01 ms busy, 10, no reply, 11
unconditional; bits 21, 00 (unused); octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded
if received and not understood.
@item no-Reply-Condition-Time
@code{Ext-NoRepCondTime ::= INTEGER(1..100)} Only values 5-30 are used.  Values in the range 1-4 and
31-100 are reserved for future use: if received, values 1-4 shall be mapped onto value 5; values
31-100 shall be mapped onto value 30.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-Forwarded-To-Number
@code{FTN-AddressString ::= AddressString (SIZE(1..15))}  This type is used to represent
forwarded-to numbers.  If NAI is ``international'', the first digits represent the country code (CC)
and the network destination code (NDC) as for E.164.
@end vtable

@node Ext-Forw-Info
@subsubsection Ext-Forw-Info
@vindex Ext-Forw-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{203}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab203,203,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-Forw-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item forwarding-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.  @xref{Ext-Forw-Feature-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-SS-Data
@subsubsection Ext-SS-Data
@vindex Ext-SS-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{213}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab213,213,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-SS-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item ss-Subscription-Option
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Subscription-Option}.
@xref{SS-Subscription-Option}.
@item basic-Service-Group-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE
@subsubsection Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE
@vindex Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{310}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attribute is present in an instance of this OM
class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab310,310,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-SS-Info-For-CSE}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info-For-CSE
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE}.
@xref{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE}.
@item call-Barring-Info-For-CSE
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE}.
@xref{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-SS-Info-List
@subsubsection Ext-SS-Info-List
@vindex Ext-SS-Info-List

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{201}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab201,201,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-SS-Info-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-SS-Info
One to thirty (@code{maxNumOfSS}) instances of OM Class @b{Ext-SS-Info}.  @xref{Ext-SS-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Ext-SS-Info
@subsubsection Ext-SS-Info
@vindex Ext-SS-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{202}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attribute is present in an instance of this OM
class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab202,202,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Ext-SS-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forw-Info}.  @xref{Ext-Forw-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Bar-Info}.  @xref{Ext-Call-Bar-Info}.
@item cug-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Info}.  @xref{CUG-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Data}.  @xref{Ext-SS-Data}.
@item emlpp-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EMLPP-Info}.  @xref{EMLPP-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Failure-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Failure-Report-Arg
@vindex Failure-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Failure-Report-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{265}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab265,265,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Failure-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item ggsn-Number
An ISDN Address String.
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Failure-Report-Res
@subsubsection Failure-Report-Res
@vindex Failure-Report-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Failure-Report-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{266}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab266,266,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Failure-Resport-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg
@subsubsection Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg
@vindex Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{147}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab147,147,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forward-Access-Signalling-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item integrity-Protection-Info
@code{IntegrityProtectionInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(18..100))} Octets contain a complete
IntegrityProtectionInformation data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the
encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed, in the least
significant bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item encryption-Info
@code{EncryptionInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(18..100))} Octets contain a complete
EncryptionInformation data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the encoding
scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed, in the least significant
bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item key-Status
@table @asis
@item @b{old}
(@samp{MAP_T_OLD} @samp{0})
@item @b{new}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEW} @samp{1})
@end table
@item allowed-GSM-Algorithms
@code{AllowedGSM-Algorithms ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Internal structure is coded as Algorithm
identifier octet from Permitted Algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 48.008.  A node shall mark all GSM
algorithms that are allowed in MSC-B.
@item allowed-UMTS-Algorithms
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@xref{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@item radio-Resource-Information
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item radio-Resource-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Radio-Resource-List}.
@xref{Radio-Resource-List}.
@item bssmap-Service-Handover
@code{BSSMAP-ServiceHandover ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to the Service
Handover information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item ranap-Service-Handover
@code{RANAP-ServiceHandover ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octet contains a complete Service-Handover
data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS
25.413.  Padding bits are included in the least significant bits.
@item bssmap-Service-Handover-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List}.
@xref{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List}.
@item currently-Used-Codec
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item iu-Supported-Codecs-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Supported-Codecs-List}.
@xref{Supported-Codecs-List}.
@item rab-Configuration-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item iu-Selected-Codec
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item alternative-Channel-Type
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item trace-Propagation-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Trace-Propagation-List}.
@xref{Trace-Propagation-List}.
@end vtable

@node Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg
@subsubsection Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg
@vindex Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Forward-Check-SS-Indication-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}; it does not define any class-specific OM attributes.

@node GMLC-List
@subsubsection GMLC-List
@vindex GMLC-List

An instance of OM class @b{GMLC-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{186}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab186,186,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GMLC-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gmlc
One to five instances of an ISDN Address String.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@subsubsection GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@vindex GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{192}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab192,192,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gprs-Camel-TDP-Data
One to ten instances of OM Class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data}.  @xref{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data}.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data
@subsubsection GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data
@vindex GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{193}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab193,193,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gprs-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{attach}
(@samp{MAP_T_ATTACH} @samp{1})
@item @b{attach-change-of-position}
(@samp{MAP_T_ATTACH_CHANGE_OF_POSITION} @samp{2})
@item @b{pdp-context-establishment}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT_ESTABLISHMENT} @samp{11})
@item @b{pdp-context-establishment-acknowledgement}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT_ESTABLISHMENT_ACKNOWLEDGEMENT} @samp{12})
@item @b{pdp-context-change-of-position}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT_CHANGE_OF_POSITION} @samp{14})
@end table
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item default-Session-Handling
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-transaction}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_TRANSACTION} @samp{0})
@item @b{release-transaction}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_TRANSACTION} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-CSI
@subsubsection GPRS-CSI
@vindex GPRS-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{191}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab191,191,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gprs-Camel-TDP-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@xref{GPRS-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@item camel-Capability-Handling
@code{CamelCapabilityHandling ::= INTEGER(1..16)} Value 1, CAMEL phase 1; value 2, CAMEL phase 2;
value 3, CAMEL phase 3; value 4, CAMEL phase 4.  Receiption of values greater than 4 shall be
treated as CAMEL phase 4.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-Data-List
@subsubsection GPRS-Data-List
@vindex GPRS-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{187}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab187,187,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdp-Context
One to fifty instances of OM Class @b{PDP-Context}. @xref{PDP-Context}.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-MS-Class
@subsubsection GPRS-MS-Class
@vindex GPRS-MS-Class

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-MS-Class} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{280}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab280,280,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-MS-Class}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ms-Network-Capability
@code{MSNetworkCapability ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))} This parameter carries the value part of
the MS Network Capability IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item ms-Radio-Access-Capability
@code{MSRadioAccessCapability ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..50))} This parameter carries the value part
of the MS Radio Access Capability IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-Subscription-Data
@subsubsection GPRS-Subscription-Data
@vindex GPRS-Subscription-Data

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{189}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab189,189,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item complete-Data-List-Included
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item gprs-Data-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Data-List}.  @xref{GPRS-Data-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
@subsubsection GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw
@vindex GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw

An instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{225}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab225,225,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data-Withdraw}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item all-GPRS-Data
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item context-Id-List
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Context-Id-List}.  @xref{Context-Id-List}.
@end vtable

@node GSM-Security-Context-Data
@subsubsection GSM-Security-Context-Data
@vindex GSM-Security-Context-Data

An instance of OM class @b{GSM-Security-Context-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{138}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab138,138,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{GSM-Security-Context-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item kc
@code{KC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))}
@item cksn
@code{Cksn ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The internal structure is defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg
@subsubsection Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg
@vindex Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{174}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab174,174,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item subscriber-Data
Components of subscriber data as follows:
@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item category
@code{Category ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The internal structure is defined in ITU-T Rec. Q.763.
@item subscriber-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{service-granted}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVICE_GRANTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{operator-determined-barring}
(@samp{MAP_T_OPERATOR_DETERMINED_BARRING} @samp{1})
@end table
@item bearer-Service-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Bearer-Service-List}.
@xref{Bearer-Service-List}.
@item teleservice-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Teleservice-List}.  @xref{Teleservice-List}.
@item provisioned-SS
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info-List}.  @xref{Ext-SS-Info-List}.
@item odb-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Data}.  @xref{ODB-Data}.
@item roaming-Restriction-Due-To-Unsupported-Feature
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item regional-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Zone-Code-List}.  @xref{Zone-Code-List}.
@item vbs-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VBS-Data-List}.  @xref{VBS-Data-List}.
@item vgcs-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VGCS-Data-List}.  @xref{VGCS-Data-List}.
@item vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@end vtable
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item naea-Preferred-CI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{NAEA-Preferred-CI}.  @xref{NAEA-Preferred-CI}.
@item gprs-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-Subscription-Data}.
@xref{GPRS-Subscription-Data}.
@item roaming-Restricted-In-Sgsn-Due-To-Unsupported-Feature
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item network-Access-Mode
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{packet-and-circuit}
(@samp{MAP_T_PACKET_AND_CIRCUIT} @samp{0})
@item @b{only-circuit}
(@samp{MAP_T_ONLY_CIRCUIT} @samp{1})
@item @b{only-packet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ONLY_PACKET} @samp{2})
@end table
@item lsa-Information
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LSA-Information}.  @xref{LSA-Information}.
@item lmu-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item lcs-Information
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Information}.  @xref{LCS-Information}.
@item ist-Alert-Timer
@code{IST-AlertTimerValue ::= INTEGER(15..255)}
@item super-Charger-Supported-In-HLR
@code{AgeIndicator ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..6))}  The internal structure of this parameter is
implementation specific.
@item mc-SS-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MC-SS-Info}.  @xref{MC-SS-Info}.
@item cs-Allocation-Retention-Priority
@code{CS-AllocationRetentionPriority ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} This data type encodes each
priority level defined in TS 23.107 as the binary value of the priority level.
@item sgsn-Camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@item charging-Characteristics
@code{ChargingCharacteristics ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS
32.215.
@item access-Restriction-Data
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{utran-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UTRAN_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{geran-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERAN_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{1})
@item @b{gan-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_GAN_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{2})
@item @b{i-hspa-evolution-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_I_HSPA_EVOLUTION_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{3})
@item @b{e-utran-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_UTRAN_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{4})
@item @b{ho-to-non-3gpp-access-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_HO_TO_NON_3GPP_ACCESS_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{5})
@end table
@item ics-Indicator
A boolean value indicator.
@item eps-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-Subscription-Data}.
@xref{EPS-Subscription-Data}.
@item csg-Subscription-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CSG-Subscription-Data-List}.
@xref{CSG-Subscription-Data-List}.
@end vtable

@node Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res
@subsubsection Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res
@vindex Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{175}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab175,175,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Insert-Subscriber-Data-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item teleservice-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Teleservice-List}.  @xref{Teleservice-List}.
@item bearer-Service-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Bearer-Service-List}.  @xref{Bearer-Service-List}.
@item ss-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-List}.  @xref{SS-List}.
@item odb-General-Data
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{all-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{0})
@item @b{international-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{1})
@item @b{international-og-calls-not-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_NOT_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{2})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{6})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-no-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_NO_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{7})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-and-international-og-calls-not-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_AND_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_NOT_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{8})
@item @b{premium-rate-information-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_PREMIUM_RATE_INFORMATION_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{3})
@item @b{premium-rate-entertainment-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_PREMIUM_RATE_ENTERTAINMENT_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{4})
@item @b{ss-access-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_ACCESS_BARRED} @samp{5})
@item @b{all-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{9})
@item @b{chargeable-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGEABLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{10})
@item @b{international-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{11})
@item @b{interzonal-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{12})
@item @b{doubly-chargeable-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_DOUBLY_CHARGEABLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{13})
@item @b{multiple-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{14})
@item @b{all-packet-oriented-service-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_PACKET_ORIENTED_SERVICE_BARRED} @samp{15})
@item @b{roamer-access-to-hplmn-ap-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMER_ACCESS_TO_HPLMN_AP_BARRED} @samp{16})
@item @b{roamer-access-to-vplmn-ap-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMER_ACCESS_TO_VPLMN_AP_BARRED} @samp{17})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{18})
@item @b{all-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{19})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{20})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-i-country-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_I_COUNTRY_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{21})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_BARRED} @samp{22})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{23})
@item @b{registration-all-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_ALL_CF_BARRED} @samp{24})
@item @b{registration-cf-not-to-hplmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_CF_NOT_TO_HPLMN_BARRED} @samp{25})
@item @b{registration-interzonal-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERZONAL_CF_BARRED} @samp{26})
@item @b{registration-interzonal-cf-not-to-hplmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERZONAL_CF_NOT_TO_HPLMN_BARRED} @samp{27})
@item @b{registration-interational-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERATIONAL_CF_BARRED} @samp{28})
@end table
@item regional-Subscription-Response
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{network-node-area-restricted}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_NODE_AREA_RESTRICTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{too-many-zone-codes}
(@samp{MAP_T_TOO_MANY_ZONE_CODES} @samp{1})
@item @b{zone-codes-conflict}
(@samp{MAP_T_ZONE_CODES_CONFLICT} @samp{2})
@item @b{regional-subsc-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGIONAL_SUBSC_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item supported-Camel-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item supported-Features
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{odb-all}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_ALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{odb-HPLMN-APN}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_HPLMN_APN} @samp{1})
@item @b{odb-VPLMN-APN}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_VPLMN_APN} @samp{2})
@item @b{reg-Sub}
(@samp{MAP_T_REG_SUB} @samp{3})
@end table
@end vtable

@node LCS-Information
@subsubsection LCS-Information
@vindex LCS-Information

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Information} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{185}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab185,185,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gmlc-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GMLC-List}.  @xref{GMLC-List}.
@item lcs-Privacy-Exception-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List}.
@xref{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List}.
@item molr-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MOLR-List}.  @xref{MOLR-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item add-Lcs-Privacy-Exception-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List}.
@xref{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Privacy-Class
@subsubsection LCS-Privacy-Class
@vindex LCS-Privacy-Class

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Privacy-Class} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{215}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab215,215,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Privacy-Class}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item notification-To-MS-User
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{notify-location-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{notify-and-verify-location-allowed-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_NO_REPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{notify-and-verity-location-allowed-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{location-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item external-Client-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Client-List}.
@xref{External-Client-List}.
@item plmn-Client-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PLMN-Client-List}.  @xref{PLMN-Client-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item ext-external-Client-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-External-Client-List}.
@xref{Ext-External-Client-List}.
@item service-Type-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Service-Type-List}.  @xref{Service-Type-List}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Privacy-Exception-List
@subsubsection LCS-Privacy-Exception-List
@vindex LCS-Privacy-Exception-List

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{214}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab214,214,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Privacy-Exception-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lcs-Privacy-Class
One to four instances of OM Class @b{LCS-Privacy-Class}.  @xref{LCS-Privacy-Class}.
@end vtable

@node Location-Area
@subsubsection Location-Area
@vindex Location-Area

An instance of OM class @b{Location-Area} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{121}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab121,121,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Area}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lai-Fixed-Length
@code{LAIFixedLength = OCTET STRING(SIZE(5))} Refers to Location Area Identification defined in 3GPP
TS 23.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code
1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd
digit; 8765 mobile netework code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, location
area code (LAC) according to 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item lac
@code{LAC ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(2))}
Refers to Location Area Code of the Location Area Identification defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
Location Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008.
@end vtable

@node Location-Information-GPRS
@subsubsection Location-Information-GPRS
@vindex Location-Information-GPRS

An instance of OM class @b{Location-Information-GPRS} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{283}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab283,283,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Information-GPRS}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@xref{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@item routeing-Area-Identity
@code{RAIdentity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(6))} Routing Area Identity is coded in accordance with 3GPP
TS 29.060.  It shall contain the value part defined in 3GPP TS 29.060 only.  That is, the 3GPP TS
29.060 type identifier octet shall not be included.
@item geographical-Information
@code{GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))} Refers to geographical information defined
in 3GPP TS 23.032.  Only the description of an ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.032 is allowed to be used.  The internal structure according to 3GPP TS 23.032 is as
follows: 1 octet, type of shape (elipsoid point with uncertanty circle), 3 octets, degrees of
latitude, 3 octets degrees of longitude, 1 octet, uncertainty code.
@item sgsn-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an SGSN.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the SGSN.
@item selected-LSA-Identity
@code{LSA-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item sai-Present
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item geodetic-Information
@code{GeodeticInformation :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(10))} Referes to calling geodetic location defined
in ITU-T Recommendation Q.763 (1999).  Only the description of an ellispoid point with uncertainty
circle as specified in Q.763 (1999) is allowed to be used.  The internal structure according to
Q.763 (1999) is as follows: 1 octet, screening and presence indicators, 1 octet, type of shape
(ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle), 3 octets, degrees of latitude, 3 octets, degrees of
longitude, 1 octet, uncertainty code, 1 octet, confidence.
@item current-Location-Retrieved
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item age-Of-Location-Information
@code{AgeOfLocationInformation ::= INTEGER (0..32767)}  The value represents the elapsed time in
minutes since the last network contact of the mobile station (i.e. the actuality of the location
information).  A value of @samp{0} indicates that the MS is currently in contact with the network.
A value of @samp{32767} indicates that the location information is at least @samp{32767} minutes
old.
@end vtable

@node Location-Information
@subsubsection Location-Information
@vindex Location-Information

An instance of OM class @b{Location-Information} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{282}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab282,282,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item age-Of-Location-Information
@code{AgeOfLocationInformation ::= INTEGER (0..32767)}  The value represents the elapsed time in
minutes since the last network contact of the mobile station (i.e. the actuality of the location
information).  A value of @samp{0} indicates that the MS is currently in contact with the network.
A value of @samp{32767} indicates that the location information is at least @samp{32767} minutes
old.
@item geographical-Information
@code{GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))} Refers to geographical information defined
in 3GPP TS 23.032.  Only the description of an ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.032 is allowed to be used.  The internal structure according to 3GPP TS 23.032 is as
follows: 1 octet, type of shape (elipsoid point with uncertanty circle), 3 octets, degrees of
latitude, 3 octets degrees of longitude, 1 octet, uncertainty code.
@item vlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of a VLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the VLR.
@item location-Number
@code{LocationNumber ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..10))} The internal structure is defined in ITU-T Rec.
Q.763.
@item cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@xref{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item selected-LSA-Id
@code{LSA-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item msc-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an MSC.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item geodetic-Information
@code{GeodeticInformation :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(10))} Referes to calling geodetic location defined
in ITU-T Recommendation Q.763 (1999).  Only the description of an ellispoid point with uncertainty
circle as specified in Q.763 (1999) is allowed to be used.  The internal structure according to
Q.763 (1999) is as follows: 1 octet, screening and presence indicators, 1 octet, type of shape
(ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle), 3 octets, degrees of latitude, 3 octets, degrees of
longitude, 1 octet, uncertainty code, 1 octet, confidence.
@item current-Location-Retrieved
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item sai-Present
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node LSA-Data-List
@subsubsection LSA-Data-List
@vindex LSA-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{LSA-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{194}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab194,194,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LSA-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lsa-Data
One to twenty instances of of OM class @b{LSA-Data}.  @xref{LSA-Data}.
@end vtable

@node LSA-Data
@subsubsection LSA-Data
@vindex LSA-Data

An instance of OM class @b{LSA-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{195}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab195,195,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LSA-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lsa-Identity
@code{LSA-Identity ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item lsa-Attributes
@code{LSA-Attributes ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item lsa-Active-Mode-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node LSA-Identity-List
@subsubsection LSA-Identity-List
@vindex LSA-Identity-List

An instance of OM class @b{LSA-Identity-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{229}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab229,229,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LSA-Identity-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lsa-Identity
One to @code{maxNumOfLSAs} instances of an LSA-Identity.  @code{LSA-Identity ::= OCTET STRING
(SIZE(3))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@end vtable

@node LSA-Information
@subsubsection LSA-Information
@vindex LSA-Information

An instance of OM class @b{LSA-Information} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{196}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab196,196,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LSA-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item complete-Data-List-Included
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item lsa-Only-Access-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{access-outside-lsas-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACCESS_OUTSIDE_LSAS_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{access-outside-lsas-restricted}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACCESS_OUTSIDE_LSAS_RESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item lsa-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LSA-Data-List}.  @xref{LSA-Data-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node LSA-Information-Withdraw
@subsubsection LSA-Information-Withdraw
@vindex LSA-Information-Withdraw

An instance of OM class @b{LSA-Information-Withdraw} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{228}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab228,228,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LSA-Information-Withdraw}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item all-LSA-Data
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item lsa-Identity-List
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LSA-Identity-List}.  @xref{LSA-Identity-List}.
@end vtable

@node M-CSI
@subsubsection M-CSI
@vindex M-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{M-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{257}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab257,257,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{M-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mobility-Triggers
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Mobility-Triggers}.  @xref{Mobility-Triggers}.
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MG-CSI
@subsubsection MG-CSI
@vindex MG-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{MG-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{258}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab258,258,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MG-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mobility-Triggers
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Mobility-Triggers}.  @xref{Mobility-Triggers}.
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MNP-Info-Res
@subsubsection MNP-Info-Res
@vindex MNP-Info-Res

An instance of OM class @b{MNP-Info-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{279}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab279,279,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MNP-Info-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item routeing-Number
@code{RouteingNumber ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item number-Portability-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-known-to-be-ported}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_KNOWN_TO_BE_PORTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{own-number-ported-out}
(@samp{MAP_T_OWN_NUMBER_PORTED_OUT} @samp{1})
@item @b{foreign-number-ported-to-foreign-network}
(@samp{MAP_T_FOREIGN_NUMBER_PORTED_TO_FOREIGN_NETWORK} @samp{2})
@item @b{own-number-not-ported-out}
(@samp{MAP_T_OWN_NUMBER_NOT_PORTED_OUT} @samp{4})
@item @b{foreign-number-ported-in}
(@samp{MAP_T_FOREIGN_NUMBER_PORTED_IN} @samp{5})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Mobility-Triggers
@subsubsection Mobility-Triggers
@vindex Mobility-Triggers

An instance of OM class @b{Mobility-Triggers} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{259}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab259,259,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Mobility-Triggers}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mm-Code
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfMobilityTriggers}) instances of a MM-code.
@code{MM-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

@node Modification-Request-For-CB-Info
@subsubsection Modification-Request-For-CB-Info
@vindex Modification-Request-For-CB-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-CB-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{302}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab302,302,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Modification-Request-For-CB-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item password
@code{Password ::= NumericString (FROM (0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9)) (SIZE(4))}
@item wrong-Password-Attempts-Counter
@code{WrongPasswordAttemptsCounter ::= INTEGER(0..4)}
@item modify-Notification-To-CSE
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Modification-Request-For-CF-Info
@subsubsection Modification-Request-For-CF-Info
@vindex Modification-Request-For-CF-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-CF-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{301}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab301,301,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Modification-Request-For-CF-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item forwarded-To-Number
An address string.
@item forwarded-To-Subaddress
An ISDN subaddress string.
@item no-Reply-Condition-Time
@code{Ext-NoRepCondTime ::= INTEGER(1..100)} Only values 5-30 are used.  Values in the range 1-4 and
31-100 are reserved for future use.  If received, values 1-4 shall be mapped onto value 5 and values
31-100 shall be mapped onto value 30.
@item modify-Notification-To-CSE
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Modification-Request-For-CSI
@subsubsection Modification-Request-For-CSI
@vindex Modification-Request-For-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-for-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{304}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab304,304,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Modification-Request-for-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item requested-Camel-Subscription-Info
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{tif-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_TIF_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{grps-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mo-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_SMS_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{ss-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_CSI} @samp{6})
@item @b{m-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_M_CSI} @samp{7})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{8})
@end table
@item modify-Notification-To-CSE
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item modify-CSI-State
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item additional-Requested-Camel-Subscription-Info
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{o-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_IM_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{d-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_IM_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{vt-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_IM_CSI} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data
@subsubsection Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data
@vindex Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{305}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab305,305,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Modification-Request-For-IP-SM-GW-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item modify-Registration-Status
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data
@subsubsection Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data
@vindex Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{303}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab303,303,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Modification-Request-For-ODB-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item odb-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Data}.  @xref{ODB-Data}.
@item modify-Notification-To-CSE
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deactivate}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEACTIVATE} @samp{0})
@item @b{activate}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MOLR-Class
@subsubsection MOLR-Class
@vindex MOLR-Class

An instance of OM class @b{MOLR-Class} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{222}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab222,222,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MOLR-Class}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{Ext-SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..5))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
Octet 1, bits 8765, unused (0000); bits 4321,
used to convey the ``P bit'', ``R bit'', ``A bit'' and ``Q bit'', representing supplementary service
state information as defined in 3GPP TS 23.011: bit 4, ``Q bit''; bit 3, ``P bit''; bit 2, ``R
bit''; bit 1, ``A bit''; octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  They shall be discarded if received
and not understood.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MOLR-List
@subsubsection MOLR-List
@vindex MOLR-List

An instance of OM class @b{MOLR-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{221}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab221,221,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MOLR-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item molr-Class
One to three instances of OM class @b{MOLR-Class}.  @xref{MOLR-Class}.
@end vtable

@node MSISDN-BS-List
@subsubsection MSISDN-BS-List
@vindex MSISDN-BS-List

An instance of OM class @b{MSISDN-BS-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{293}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab293,293,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MSISDN-BS-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn-BS
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfMSISDN}) instances of OM class
@b{MSISDN-BS}.
@xref{MSISDN-BS}.
@end vtable

@node MSISDN-BS
@subsubsection MSISDN-BS
@vindex MSISDN-BS

An instance of OM class @b{MSISDN-BS} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{294}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab294,294,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MSISDN-BS}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item basic-Service-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-List}.  @xref{Basic-Service-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
@subsubsection MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
@vindex MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List

An instance of OM class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{233}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab233,233,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mt-Sms-Camel-TDP-Criteria
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}.
@xref{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}.
@end vtable

@node MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria
@subsubsection MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria
@vindex MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{234}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab234,234,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sms-collected-info}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_COLLECTED_INFO} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-delivery-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVERY_REQUEST} @samp{2})
@end table
@item tpdu-Type-Criterion
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{TPDU-Type-Criterion}.
@xref{TPDU-Type-Criterion}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Note-MM-Event-Arg
@subsubsection Note-MM-Event-Arg
@vindex Note-MM-Event-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Note-MM-Event-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{308}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab308,308,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-MM-Event-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item event-Met
@code{MM-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item location-Information
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Location-Information}.
@xref{Location-Information}.
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@item supported-Camel-Phases
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item location-Information-GPRS
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Location-Information-GPRS}.
@xref{Location-Information-GPRS}.
@item offered-Camel4-Functionalities
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{initiate-call-attempt}
(@samp{MAP_T_INITIATE_CALL_ATTEMPT} @samp{0})
@item @b{split-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_SPLIT_LEG} @samp{1})
@item @b{move-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOVE_LEG} @samp{2})
@item @b{disconnect-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_LEG} @samp{3})
@item @b{entity-released}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENTITY_RELEASED} @samp{4})
@item @b{dfc-with-argument}
(@samp{MAP_T_DFS_WITH_ARGUMENT} @samp{5})
@item @b{play-tone}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLAY_TONE} @samp{6})
@item @b{dtmf-midcall}
(@samp{MAP_T_DTMF_MIDCALL} @samp{7})
@item @b{charging-indicator}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGING_INDICATOR} @samp{8})
@item @b{altering-dp}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_DP} @samp{9})
@item @b{location-at-alterting}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_AT_ALERTING} @samp{10})
@item @b{change-of-position-dp}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHANGE_OF_POSITION_DP} @samp{11})
@item @b{or-interactions}
(@samp{MAP_T_OR_INTERACTIONS} @samp{12})
@item @b{warning-tone-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_WARNING_TONE_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{13})
@item @b{cf-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_CF_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{14})
@item @b{subscribed-enhanced-dialled-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUBSCRIBED_ENHANCED_DIALLED_SERVICES} @samp{15})
@item @b{serving-network-enhanced-dialled-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_NETWORK_ENHANCED_DIALLED_SERVICES} @samp{16})
@item @b{criteria-for-change-of-position-dp}
(@samp{MAP_T_CRITERIA_FOR_CHANGE_OF_POSITION_DP} @samp{17})
@item @b{service-change-dp}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVICE_CHANGE_DP} @samp{18})
@item @b{collect-information}
(@samp{MAP_T_COLLECT_INFORMATION} @samp{19})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Note-MM-Event-Res
@subsubsection Note-MM-Event-Res
@vindex Note-MM-Event-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Note-MM-Event-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{309}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab309,309,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-MM-Event-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg
@subsubsection Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg
@vindex Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{267}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab267,267,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item sgsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res
@subsubsection Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res
@vindex Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{268}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab268,268,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-Ms-Present-For-Gprs-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg
@subsubsection Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg
@vindex Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{306}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab306,306,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item forwarding-Info-For-CSE
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE}.
@xref{Ext-Forwarding-Info-For-CSE}.
@item call-Barring-Info-For-CSE
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE}.
@xref{Ext-Call-Barring-Info-For-CSE}.
@item odb-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Info}.  @xref{ODB-Info}.
@item camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{CAMEL-Subscription-Info}.
@item all-Information-Sent
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res
@subsubsection Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res
@vindex Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{307}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab307,307,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Note-Subscriber-Data-Modified-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
@subsubsection O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
@vindex O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List

An instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{411}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab411,411,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria}.
@end vtable

@node O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria
@subsubsection O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria
@vindex O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{246}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab246,246,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-Bcsm-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{collected-info}
(@samp{MAP_T_COLLECTED_INFO} @samp{2})
@item @b{route-select-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROUTE_SELECT_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@end table
@item destination-Number-Criteria
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Destination-Number-Criteria}.
@xref{Destination-Number-Criteria}.
@item basic-Service-Criteria
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Criteria}.
@xref{Basic-Service-Criteria}.
@item call-Type-Criteria
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{forwarded}
(@samp{MAP_T_FORWARDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{not-forwarded}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_FORWARDED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item o-Cause-Value-Criteria
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Cause-Value-Criteria}.
@xref{O-Cause-Value-Criteria}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@end vtable

@node O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@subsubsection O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@vindex O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{243}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab243,243,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}.
@end vtable

@node O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
@subsubsection O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
@vindex O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data

An instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{244}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab244,244,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-Bcsm-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{collected-info}
(@samp{MAP_T_COLLECTED_INFO} @samp{2})
@item @b{route-select-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROUTE_SELECT_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@end table
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item default-Call-Handling
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{release-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_CALL} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node O-Cause-Value-Criteria
@subsubsection O-Cause-Value-Criteria
@vindex O-Cause-Value-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{O-Cause-Value-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{252}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab252,252,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-Cause-Value-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cause-Value
One to five (@code{maxNumOfCAMEL-O-CauseValueCriteria}) instances of a cause value.
@code{CauseValue ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Type extracted from Cause parameter in ITU-T
Recommendation Q.763.  For the use of cause value refer to ITU-T Recommendation Q.850.
@end vtable

@node O-CSI
@subsubsection O-CSI
@vindex O-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{O-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{242}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab242,242,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{O-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item camel-Capability-Handling
@code{CamelCapabilityHandling ::= INTEGER(1..16)} Value 1, CAMEL phase 1; value 2, CAMEL phase 2;
value 3, CAMEL phase 3; value 4, CAMEL phase 4.  Receiption of values greater than 4 shall be
treated as CAMEL phase 4.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node ODB-Data
@subsubsection ODB-Data
@vindex ODB-Data

An instance of OM class @b{ODB-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{200}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab200,200,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{ODB-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item odb-General-Data
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{all-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{0})
@item @b{international-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{1})
@item @b{international-og-calls-not-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_NOT_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{2})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{6})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-no-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_NO_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{7})
@item @b{interzonal-og-calls-and-international-og-calls-not-to-hplmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_OG_CALLS_AND_INTERNATIONAL_OG_CALLS_NOT_TO_HPLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{8})
@item @b{premium-rate-information-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_PREMIUM_RATE_INFORMATION_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{3})
@item @b{premium-rate-entertainment-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_PREMIUM_RATE_ENTERTAINMENT_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{4})
@item @b{ss-access-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_ACCESS_BARRED} @samp{5})
@item @b{all-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{9})
@item @b{chargeable-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGEABLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{10})
@item @b{international-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{11})
@item @b{interzonal-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERZONAL_ECT_BARRED} @samp{12})
@item @b{doubly-chargeable-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_DOUBLY_CHARGEABLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{13})
@item @b{multiple-ect-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ECT_BARRED} @samp{14})
@item @b{all-packet-oriented-service-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_PACKET_ORIENTED_SERVICE_BARRED} @samp{15})
@item @b{roamer-access-to-hplmn-ap-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMER_ACCESS_TO_HPLMN_AP_BARRED} @samp{16})
@item @b{roamer-access-to-vplmn-ap-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMER_ACCESS_TO_VPLMN_AP_BARRED} @samp{17})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-og-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_OG_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{18})
@item @b{all-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALL_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{19})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{20})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-i-country-ic-calls-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_I_COUNTRY_IC_CALLS_BARRED} @samp{21})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_BARRED} @samp{22})
@item @b{roaming-outside-plmn-country-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMING_OUTSIDE_PLMN_COUNTRY_BARRED} @samp{23})
@item @b{registration-all-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_ALL_CF_BARRED} @samp{24})
@item @b{registration-cf-not-to-hplmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_CF_NOT_TO_HPLMN_BARRED} @samp{25})
@item @b{registration-interzonal-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERZONAL_CF_BARRED} @samp{26})
@item @b{registration-interzonal-cf-not-to-hplmn-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERZONAL_CF_NOT_TO_HPLMN_BARRED} @samp{27})
@item @b{registration-interational-cf-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_REGISTRATION_INTERATIONAL_CF_BARRED} @samp{28})
@end table
@item odb-HPLMN-Data
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{plmn-specific-barring-type1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_SPECIFIC_BARRING_TYPE1} @samp{0})
@item @b{plmn-specific-barring-type2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_SPECIFIC_BARRING_TYPE2} @samp{1})
@item @b{plmn-specific-barring-type3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_SPECIFIC_BARRING_TYPE3} @samp{2})
@item @b{plmn-specific-barring-type4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_SPECIFIC_BARRING_TYPE4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node ODB-Info
@subsubsection ODB-Info
@vindex ODB-Info

An instance of OM class @b{ODB-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{297}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab297,297,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{ODB-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item odb-Data
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Data}.  @xref{ODB-Data}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Paging-Area
@subsubsection Paging-Area
@vindex Paging-Area

An instance of OM class @b{Paging-Area} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{120}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab120,120,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Paging-Area}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Area
One to five instances of the OM Class @b{Location-Area}.  @xref{Location-Area}.
@end vtable

@node PDN-GW-Identity
@subsubsection PDN-GW-Identity
@vindex PDN-GW-Identity

An instance of OM class @b{PDN-GW-Identity} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{184}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab184,184,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PDN-GW-Identity}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdn-Gw-IPv4-Address
@code{PDP-Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..16))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.  The
possible values are: 1-7 octets X.25 address type, 4 octets IPv4 address type, 16 octets IPv6
address type.
@item pdn-Gw-IPv6-Address
@code{PDP-Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..16))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.  The
possible values are: 1-7 octets X.25 address type, 4 octets IPv4 address type, 16 octets IPv6
address type.
@item pdn-Gw-Name
@code{FQDN :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(9..100))}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PDN-GW-Update
@subsubsection PDN-GW-Update
@vindex PDN-GW-Update

An instance of OM class @b{PDN-GW-Update} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{145}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab145,145,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PDN-GW-Update}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item apn
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item pdn-Gw-Identity
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PDN-GW-Identity}.  @xref{PDN-GW-Identity}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PDP-Context-Info-List
@subsubsection PDP-Context-Info-List
@vindex PDP-Context-Info-List

An instance of OM class @b{PDP-Context-Info-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{286}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab286,286,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PDP-Context-Info-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdp-Context-Info
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfPDP-Contexts}) instances of OM class
@b{PDP-Context-Info}.
@xref{PDP-Context-Info}.
@end vtable

@node PDP-Context-Info
@subsubsection PDP-Context-Info
@vindex PDP-Context-Info

An instance of OM class @b{PDP-Context-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{287}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab287,287,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PDP-Context-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdp-Context-Identifier
@code{ContextID ::= INTEGER(1..50)}
@item pdp-Context-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item pdp-Type
@code{PDP-Type ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.
@item apn-Subscribed
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item apn-In-Use
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item nsapi
@code{NAPSI ::= INTEGER(0..15)} This type is used to indicate the Network layer Service Access
Point.
@item transaction-Id
@code{TransactionId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))} This type carries the value part of the
trasnaction identifier which is used in the session management messages on the access interface.
The encoding is defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item teid-For-Gn-And-Gp
@code{TEID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))} This type carries the value part of the Tunnel Endpoint
Identifier which is used to distinguish between different tunnels between the same pair of entities
which communicate using GPRS Tunnelling Protocol.  The encoding is defined in 3GPP TS 29.060.
@item teid-For-Iu
@code{TEID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))} This type carries the value part of the Tunnel Endpoint
Identifier which is used to distinguish between different tunnels between the same pair of entities
which communicate using GPRS Tunnelling Protocol.  The encoding is defined in 3GPP TS 29.060.
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item qos-Subscribed
@code{Ext-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))}  Octet 1, allocation/retention priority
(this octet encodes each priority level defined in 23.107 as the binary value of the priority level,
declaration in 29.060); octets 2-9 are coded according to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octets
6-13.
@item qos-Requested
@code{Ext-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))}  Octet 1, allocation/retention priority
(this octet encodes each priority level defined in 23.107 as the binary value of the priority level,
declaration in 29.060); octets 2-9 are coded according to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octets
6-13.
@item qos-Negotiated
@code{Ext-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))}  Octet 1, allocation/retention priority
(this octet encodes each priority level defined in 23.107 as the binary value of the priority level,
declaration in 29.060); octets 2-9 are coded according to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octets
6-13.
@item charging-Id
@code{GPRSChargingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))} The Charging ID is a unique four octet value
generated by the GGSN when a PDP context is activated.  A Charging ID is generated for each
activated context.  The encoding s defined in 3GPP TS 29.060.
@item charging-Characteristics
@code{ChargingCharacteristics ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS
32.215.
@item rnc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item qos2-Subscribed
@code{Ext2-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..3))} Octets 1-3 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service octets 14-16.  If Quality of Service information is structured with 14
octet length, then Octet 1 is coded accoring to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octet 14.
@item qos2-Requested
@code{Ext2-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..3))} Octets 1-3 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service octets 14-16.  If Quality of Service information is structured with 14
octet length, then Octet 1 is coded accoring to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octet 14.
@item qos2-Negotiated
@code{Ext2-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..3))} Octets 1-3 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service octets 14-16.  If Quality of Service information is structured with 14
octet length, then Octet 1 is coded accoring to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octet 14.
@item qos3-Subscribed
@code{Ext3-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))} Octets 1-2 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service Octets 17-18.
@item qos3-Requested
@code{Ext3-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))} Octets 1-2 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service Octets 17-18.
@item qos3-Negotiated
@code{Ext3-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))} Octets 1-2 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service Octets 17-18.
@end vtable

@node PDP-Context
@subsubsection PDP-Context
@vindex PDP-Context

An instance of OM class @b{PDP-Context} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{188}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab188,188,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PDP-Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item pdp-Context-Id
@code{ContextID ::= INTEGER(1..50)}
@item pdp-Type
@code{PDP-Type ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.
@item pdp-Address
@code{PDP-Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..16))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 29.060.  The
possible values are: 1-7 octets X.25 address type, 4 octets IPv4 address type, 16 octets IPv6
address type.
@item qos-Subscribed
@code{QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))}  Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 24.008
Quality of Service Octets 3-5.
@item vplmn-Address-Allowed
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item apn
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item ext-QoS-Subscribed
@code{Ext-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..9))}  Octet 1, allocation/retention priority
(this octet encodes each priority level defined in 23.107 as the binary value of the priority level,
declaration in 29.060); octets 2-9 are coded according to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octets
6-13.
@item pdp-Charging-Characteristics
@code{ChargingCharacteristics ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS
32.215.
@item ext2-QoS-Subscribed
@code{Ext2-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..3))} Octets 1-3 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service octets 14-16.  If Quality of Service information is structured with 14
octet length, then Octet 1 is coded accoring to 3GPP TS 24.008 Quality of Service Octet 14.
@item ext3-QoS-Subscribed
@code{Ext3-QoS-Subscribed ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))} Octets 1-2 are coded according to 3GPP TS
24.008 Quality of Service Octets 17-18.
@end vtable

@node PLMN-Client-List
@subsubsection PLMN-Client-List
@vindex PLMN-Client-List

An instance of OM class @b{PLMN-Client-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{217}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab217,217,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PLMN-Client-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lcs-Client-Internal-ID
One to five instances of @dfn{Enum(LCS-Client-Internal-ID)}, where @dfn{LCS-Client-Internal-ID} is
an enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{broadcast-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_BROADCAST_SERVICE} @samp{0})
@item @b{o-and-m-hplmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_AND_M_HPLMN} @samp{1})
@item @b{o-and-m-vplmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_AND_M_VPLMN} @samp{2})
@item @b{anonymous-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANONYMOUS_LOCATION} @samp{3})
@item @b{target-ms-subscribed-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_TARGET_MS_SUBSCRIBED_SERVICE} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Prepare-HO-Arg
@subsubsection Prepare-HO-Arg
@cindex Prepare-HO-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-HO-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{149}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab149,149,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-HO-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-Id
@code{GlobalCellId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(5..7))} Refers to Cell Global Identification defined in
3GPP TS 23.003.  The internal structures is as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st
digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digi; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit;
bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, Location
Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008; octets 6 and 7, Call Identity (CI) according to 3GPP TS
24.008.
@item ho-Number-Not-Required
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item multiple-Bearer-Requested
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item integrity-Protection-Info
@code{IntegrityProtectionInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(18..100))} Octets contain a complete
IntegrityProtectionInformation data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the
encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed, in the least
significant bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item encryption-Info
@code{EncryptionInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(18..100))} Octets contain a complete
EncryptionInformation data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the encoding
scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included, if needed, in the least significant
bits of the last octet of the octet string.
@item radio-Resource-Information
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item allowed-GSM-Algorithms
@code{AllowedGSM-Algorithms ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Internal structure is coded as Algorithm
identifier octet from Permitted Algorithms defined in 3GPP TS 48.008.  A node shall mark all GSM
algorithms that are allowed in MSC-B.
@item allowed-UMTS-Algorithms
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@xref{Allowed-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@item radio-Resource-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Radio-Resource-List}.
@xref{Radio-Resource-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item bssmap-Service-Handover
@code{BSSMAP-ServiceHandover ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to the Service
Handover information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item ranap-Service-Handover
@code{RANAP-ServiceHandover ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octet contains a complete Service-Handover
data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS
25.413.  Padding bits are included in the least significant bits.
@item bssmap-Service-Handover-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List}.
@xref{BSSMAP-Service-Handover-List}.
@item asci-Call-Reference
A TBCD string of 1 to 8 octets representing the destination of the Short Message.  Digits of
VGCS/VBS-area and Group-ID are concatenated in this order if there is a VGCS/VBS-area.
@item geran-Classmark
@code{GERAN-Classmark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..87))} Octets are coded according to GERAN Classmark
information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item iu-Current-Used-Codec
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item iu-Supported-Codecs-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Supported-Codecs-List}.
@xref{Supported-Codecs-List}.
@item rab-Configuration-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uesbi-Iu
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{UESBI-Iu}.  @xref{UESBI-Iu}.
@item imeisv
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity and
Software Version Number (SVN) defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  If the SVN is not present, the last octet
shall contain digit 0 and a filler.  If present, the SVN shall be included in the last octet.
@item alternative-Channel-Type
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item trace-Propagation-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Trace-Propagation-List}.
@xref{Trace-Propagation-List}.
@end vtable

@node Prepare-HO-Res
@subsubsection Prepare-HO-Res
@vindex Prepare-HO-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-HO-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{150}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab150,150,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-HO-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item handover-Number
An ISDN Address string.
@item relocation-Number-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Relocation-Number-List}.
@xref{Relocation-Number-List}.
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item multicall-Bearer-Info
@code{MulticallBearerInfo ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@item multiple-Bearer-Not-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item selected-UMTS-Algorithms
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@xref{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@item chosen-Radio-Resource-Information
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item iu-Selected-Codec
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item iu-Available-Codec-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Codec-List}.  @xref{Codec-List}.
@end vtable

@node Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg
@subsubsection Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg
@vindex Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{157}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab157,157,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-Id
@code{GlobalCellId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(5..7))} Refers to Cell Global Identification defined in
3GPP TS 23.003.  The internal structures is as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st
digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digi; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit;
bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, Location
Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008; octets 6 and 7, Call Identity (CI) according to 3GPP TS
24.008.
@item target-MSC-Number
This parameter refers to the ISDN number of an MSC to which a call has to be handed over.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item target-RNC-Id
@code{RNCId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(7))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits
4321, mobile country code 1st digit; octet 1, bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2,
bits 4321, mobile country code, 3rd digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111)
for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321, mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code
2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, location area code according to 3GPP TS 24.008; octets 6 and 7, RNC Id
value according to 3GPP TS 25.413.
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item selected-Rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item geran-Classmark
@code{GERAN-Classmark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..87))} Octets are coded according to GERAN Classmark
information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item rab-Configuration-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res
@subsubsection Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res
@vindex Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{158}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab158,158,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-Subsequent-HO-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Process-Access-Signalling-Arg
@subsubsection Process-Access-Signalling-Arg
@vindex Process-Access-Signalling-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Proces-Access-Signalling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{159}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab159,159,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Process-Access-Signalling-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item selected-UMTS-Algorithm
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@xref{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms}.
@item selected-GSM-Algorithm
@code{SelectedGSM-Algorithm ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Internal structure is coded as Algorithm
Identifier octet from Chosen Encryption Algorithm defined in 3GPP TS 48.008.  A node shall mark only
the selected GSM algorithm.
@item chosen-Radio-Resource-Information
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item selected-Rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item iu-Selected-Codec
@code{Codec ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..4))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
coded as codec identification code in 3GPP TS 26.103; octets 2, 3, 4, parameters for the codec as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.103, if available, length depending on the codec.
@item iu-Available-Codec-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Codec-List}.  @xref{Codec-List}.
@end vtable

@node Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg
@subsubsection Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg
@vindex Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{276}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab276,276,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item requested-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Requested-Info}.  @xref{Requested-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item call-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@end vtable

@node Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res
@subsubsection Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res
@vindex Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{277}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab277,277,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Info-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item subscriber-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Info}.  @xref{Subscriber-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PS-Subscriber-State
@subsubsection PS-Subscriber-State
@vindex PS-Subscriber-State

An instance of OM class @b{PS-Subscriber-State} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{285}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab285,285,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PS-Subscriber-State}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item not-Provided-From-SGSN
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ps-Detached
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ps-Attached-Not-Reachable-For-Paging
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ps-Attached-Reachable-For-Paging
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ps-PDP-Active-Not-Reachable-For-Paging
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PDP-Context-Info-List}.
@xref{PDP-Context-Info-List}.
@item ps-PDP-Active-Reachable-For-Paging
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PDP-Context-Info-List}.
@xref{PDP-Context-Info-List}.
@item net-Det-Not-Reachable
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-purged}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_PURGED} @samp{0})
@item @b{imsi-detached}
(@samp{MAP_T_IMSI_DETACHED} @samp{1})
@item @b{restricted-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESTRICTED_AREA} @samp{2})
@item @b{not-registered}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_REGISTERED} @samp{3})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Purge-MS-Arg
@subsubsection Purge-MS-Arg
@vindex Purge-MS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Purge-MS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{128}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab128,128,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Purge-MS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item vlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of a VLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the VLR.
@item sgsn-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an SGSN.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the SGSN.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Purge-MS-Res
@subsubsection Purge-MS-Res
@vindex Purge-MS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Purge-MS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{129}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab129,129,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Purge-MS-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item freeze-TMSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item freeze-P-TMSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item freeze-N-TMSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Quintuplet-List
@subsubsection Quintuplet-List
@vindex Quintuplet-List

An instance of OM class @b{Quintuplet-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{134}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab134,134,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Quintuplet-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Quintuplet
This optional attribute is one to five instances of OM class @b{Authentication-Quintuplet}.  @xref{Authentication-Quintuplet}.
@end vtable

@node Radio-Resource-List
@subsubsection Radio-Resource-List
@vindex Radio-Resource-List

An instance of OM class @b{Radio-Resource-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{153}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab153,153,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Radio-Resource-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item radio-Resource
One to seven instances of OM class @b{Radio-Resource}. @xref{Radio-Resource}.
@end vtable

@node Radio-Resource
@subsubsection Radio-Resource
@vindex Radio-Resource

An instance of OM class @b{Radio-Resource} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{154}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab154,154,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Radio-Resource}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item radio-Resource-Information
@code{RadioResourceInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..13))} Octets are coded according to the
Channel Type information element in 3GPP TS 48.008.
@item rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Relocation-Number-List
@subsubsection Relocation-Number-List
@vindex Relocation-Number-List

An instance of OM class @b{Relocation-Number-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{164}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab164,164,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Relocation-Number-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item relocation-Number
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Relocation-Number}.  @xref{Relocation-Number}.
@end vtable

@node Relocation-Number
@subsubsection Relocation-Number
@vindex Relocation-Number

An instance of OM class @b{Relocation-Number} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{165}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab165,165,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Relocation-Number}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item handover-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item rab-Id
@code{RAB-Id ::= INTEGER(1..255)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Requested-Info
@subsubsection Requested-Info
@vindex Requested-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Requested-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{281}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab281,281,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Requested-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Information
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item subscriber-State
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item current-Location
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item requested-Domain
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{cs-domain}
(@samp{MAP_T_CS_DOMAIN} @samp{0})
@item @b{ps-domain}
(@samp{MAP_T_PS_DOMAIN} @samp{1})
@end table
@item imei
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ms-Classmark
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item mnp-Requested-Info
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Requested-Subscription-Info
@subsubsection Requested-Subscription-Info
@vindex Requested-Subscription-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Requested-Subscription-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{292}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab292,292,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Requested-Subscription-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item requested-SS-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-For-BS-Code}.  @xref{SS-For-BS-Code}.
@item odb
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item requested-CAMEL-Subscription-Info
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{tif-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_TIF_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{gprs-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mo-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_SMS_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{ss-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS_CSI} @samp{6})
@item @b{m-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_M_CSI} @samp{7})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{8})
@end table
@item supported-VLR-CAMEL-Phases
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item supported-SGSN-CAMEL-Phases
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item additional-Requested-CAMEL-Subscription-Info
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{o-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_IM_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{d-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_IM_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{vt-im-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_IM_CSI} @samp{4})
@end table
@item msdisdn-BS-List
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@end vtable

@node Reset-Arg
@subsubsection Reset-Arg
@vindex Reset-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Reset-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{269}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab269,269,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Reset-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item hlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an HLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the HLR.
@item hlr-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{HLR-List}.  @xref{HLR-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Restore-Data-Arg
@subsubsection Restore-Data-Arg
@vindex Restore-Data-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Restore-Data-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{270}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab270,270,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Restore-Data-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item vlr-Capability
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VLR-Capability}.  @xref{VLR-Capability}.
@end vtable

@node Restore-Data-Res
@subsubsection Restore-Data-Res
@vindex Restore-Data-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Restore-Data-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{271}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab271,271,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Restore-Data-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item hlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an HLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the HLR.
@item ms-Not-Reachable
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Resynchronisation-Info
@subsubsection Resynchronisation-Info
@vindex Resynchronisation-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Resynchronisation-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{168}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab168,168,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Resynchronisation-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item rand
@code{RAND ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item auts
@code{AUTS ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Selected-UMTS-Algorithms
@subsubsection Selected-UMTS-Algorithms
@vindex Selected-UMTS-Algorithms

An instance of OM class @b{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{155}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab155,155,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Selected-UMTS-Algorithms}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item integrity-Protection-Algorithm
@code{ChosenIntegrityProtectionAlgorithm ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))} Octet contains a complete
IntegrityProtectionAlgorithm data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the
encoding scheme mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included in the least significant
bits.
@item encryption-Algorithm
@code{ChosenEncryptionAlgorithm ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))} Octet contains a complete
EncryptionAlgorithm data type as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413, encoded according to the encoding scheme
mandated by 3GPP TS 25.413.  Padding bits are included in the least significant bits.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Authentication-Info-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Authentication-Info-Arg
@vindex Send-Authentication-Info-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{166}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab166,166,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item number-Of-Requested-Vectors
@code{NumberOfRequestedVectors ::= INTEGER(1..5)}
@item segmentation-Prohibited
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item immediate-Response-Preferred
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item re-synchronisation-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Resynchronisation-Info}.
@xref{Resynchronisation-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item requesting-Node-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{0})
@item @b{sgsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_SGSN} @samp{1})
@item @b{s-cscf}
(@samp{MAP_T_S_CSCF} @samp{2})
@item @b{bsf}
(@samp{MAP_T_BSF} @samp{3})
@item @b{gan-aaa-server}
(@samp{MAP_T_GAN_AAA_SERVER} @samp{4})
@item @b{wlan-aaa-server}
(@samp{MAP_T_WLAN_AAA_SERVER} @samp{5})
@item @b{mme}
(@samp{MAP_T_MME} @samp{16})
@item @b{mme-sgsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_MME_SGSN} @samp{17})
@end table
@item requesting-PLMN-Id
@code{PLMN-Id ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
bits 4321, mobile country code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits
4321, mobile country code 3rd digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2
digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321, mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd
digit.
@item number-Of-Requested-Additional-Vectors
@code{NumberOfRequestedVectors ::= INTEGER(1..5)}
@item additional-Vectors-Are-For-EPS
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Send-Authentication-Info-Res
@subsubsection Send-Authentication-Info-Res
@vindex Send-Authentication-Info-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{167}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab167,167,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Authentication-Info-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Set-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Set-List}.
@xref{Authentication-Set-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item eps-Authentication-Set-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-Authentication-Set-List}.
@xref{EPS-Authentication-Set-List}.
@end vtable

@node Send-End-Signal-Arg
@subsubsection Send-End-Signal-Arg
@vindex Send-End-Signal-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-End-Signal-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{162}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab162,162,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-End-Signal-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-End-Signal-Res
@subsubsection Send-End-Signal-Res
@vindex Send-End-Signal-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-End-Signal-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{163}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab163,163,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-End-Signal-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Identification-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Identification-Arg
@vindex Send-Identification-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Identification-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{130}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab130,130,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Identification-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item tmsi
@code{TMSI ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..4))} This attribute is the Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  It is between one and four octets in length.
@item number-Of-Requested-Vectors
@code{NumberOfRequestedVectors ::= INTEGER(1..5)}
@item segmentation-Prohibited
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item msc-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an MSC.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item previous-LAI
@code{LAIFixedLength = OCTET STRING(SIZE(5))} Refers to Location Area Identification defined in 3GPP
TS 23.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code
1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd
digit; 8765 mobile netework code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, location
area code (LAC) according to 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item hop-Counter
@code{HopCounter ::= INTEGER(0..3)}
@end vtable

@node Send-Identification-Res
@subsubsection Send-Identification-Res
@vindex Send-Identification-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Identification-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{131}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab131,131,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Identification-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item authentication-Set-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Authentication-Set-List}.  @xref{Authentication-Set-List}.
@item current-Security-Context
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Current-Security-Context}.  @xref{Current-Security-Context}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg
@vindex Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{263}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab263,263,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item ggsn-Number
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res
@subsubsection Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res
@vindex Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{264}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab264,264,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Routing-Info-For-Gprs-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sgsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item ggsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item mobile-Not-Reachable-Reason
@code{AbsentSubscriberDiagnosticSM ::= INTEGER (0..255)}  Values are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Service-Type-List
@subsubsection Service-Type-List
@vindex Service-Type-List

An instance of OM class @b{Service-Type-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{219}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab219,219,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Service-Type-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item service-Type
One to thirty-two instaces of OM class @b{Service-Type}.  @xref{Service-Type}.
@end vtable

@node Service-Type
@subsubsection Service-Type
@vindex Service-Type

An instance of OM class @b{Service-Type} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{220}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab220,220,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Service-Type}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item service-Type-Identity
@code{LCSServiceTypeID ::= INTEGER (0..127)}  The integer values 0-63 are reserved for standard LCS
service types; the integer values 64-127 are reserved for non-standard LCS service types.
@item gmlc-Restriction
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{gmlc-list}
(@samp{MAP_T_GMLC_LIST} @samp{0})
@item @b{home-country}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_COUNTRY} @samp{1})
@end table
@item notification-To-MS-User
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{notify-location-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{notify-and-verify-location-allowed-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_NO_REPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{notify-and-verity-location-allowed-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_AND_VERIFY_LOCATION_ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{location-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info
@subsubsection SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info
@vindex SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info

An instance of OM class @b{SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{190}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab190,190,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SGSN-CAMEL-Subscription-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item gprs-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-CSI}.  @xref{GPRS-CSI}.
@item mo-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item mt-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item mt-sms-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item mg-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MG-CSI}.  @xref{MG-CSI}.
@end vtable

@node SGSN-Capability
@subsubsection SGSN-Capability
@vindex SGSN-Capability

An instance of OM class @b{SGSN-Capability} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{146}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab146,146,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SGSN-Capability}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item solsa-Support-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item super-Charger-Supported-In-Serving-Network-Entity
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Super-Charger-Info}.  @xref{Super-Charger-Info}.
@item gprs-Enhancement-Support-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item supported-Camel-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item sms-Call-Barring-Support-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item supported-RAT-Types-Indicator
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_UTRAN} @samp{0})
@item @b{geran}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERAN} @samp{1})
@item @b{gan}
(@samp{MAP_T_GAN} @samp{2})
@item @b{i-hspa-evolution}
(@samp{MAP_T_I_HSPA_EVOLUTION} @samp{3})
@item @b{e-utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_UTRAN} @samp{4})
@end table
@item supported-Features
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{odb-all}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_ALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{odb-HPLMN-APN}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_HPLMN_APN} @samp{1})
@item @b{odb-VPLMN-APN}
(@samp{MAP_T_ODB_VPLMN_APN} @samp{2})
@item @b{reg-Sub}
(@samp{MAP_T_REG_SUB} @samp{3})
@end table
@end vtable

@node SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List
@subsubsection SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List
@vindex SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{255}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab255,255,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-CAMEL-TDP-Data
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data}.
@xref{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data}.
@end vtable

@node SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data
@subsubsection SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data
@vindex SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data

An instance of OM class @b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{256}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab256,256,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sms-collected-info}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_COLLECTED_INFO} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-delivery-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVERY_REQUEST} @samp{2})
@end table
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item default-SMS-Handling
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-transaction}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_TRANSACTION} @samp{0})
@item @b{release-transaction}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_TRANSACTION} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SMS-CSI
@subsubsection SMS-CSI
@vindex SMS-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{254}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab254,254,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List}.
@xref{SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Data-List}.
@item camel-Capability-Handling
@code{CamelCapabilityHandling ::= INTEGER(1..16)} Value 1, CAMEL phase 1; value 2, CAMEL phase 2;
value 3, CAMEL phase 3; value 4, CAMEL phase 4.  Receiption of values greater than 4 shall be
treated as CAMEL phase 4.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SS-Camel-Data
@subsubsection SS-Camel-Data
@vindex SS-Camel-Data

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Camel-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{240}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab240,240,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Camel-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Event-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Event-List}.  @xref{SS-Event-List}.
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SS-CSI
@subsubsection SS-CSI
@vindex SS-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{SS-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{239}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab239,239,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Camel-Data
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Camel-Data}.  @xref{SS-Camel-Data}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node SS-Event-List
@subsubsection SS-Event-List
@vindex SS-Event-List

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Event-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{241}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab241,241,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Event-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelSSEvents}) instances of an SS-Code.
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

@node Subscriber-Data
@subsubsection Subscriber-Data
@vindex Subscriber-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{197}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab197,197,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item category
@code{Category ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The internal structure is defined in ITU-T Rec. Q.763.
@item subscriber-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{service-granted}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVICE_GRANTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{operator-determined-barring}
(@samp{MAP_T_OPERATOR_DETERMINED_BARRING} @samp{1})
@end table
@item bearer-Service-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Bearer-Service-List}.
@xref{Bearer-Service-List}.
@item teleservice-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Teleservice-List}.  @xref{Teleservice-List}.
@item provisioned-SS
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-SS-Info-List}.  @xref{Ext-SS-Info-List}.
@item odb-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{ODB-Data}.  @xref{ODB-Data}.
@item roaming-Restriction-Due-To-Unsupported-Feature
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item regional-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Zone-Code-List}.  @xref{Zone-Code-List}.
@item vbs-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VBS-Data-List}.  @xref{VBS-Data-List}.
@item vgcs-Subscription-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VGCS-Data-List}.  @xref{VGCS-Data-List}.
@item vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Subscriber-Info
@subsubsection Subscriber-Info
@vindex Subscriber-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{278}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab278,278,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Information
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Location-Information}.  @xref{Location-Information}.
@item subscriber-State
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-State}.  @xref{Subscriber-State}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item location-Information-GPRS
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Location-Information-GPRS}.
@xref{Location-Information-GPRS}.
@item ps-Subscriber-State
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PS-Subscriber-State}.  @xref{PS-Subscriber-State}.
@item imei
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  The last octet shall contain digit 0 and a filler.
@item ms-Classmark-2
@code{MS-Classmark2 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} This parameter carries the value part of the MS
Classmark 2 IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item gprs-MS-Class
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{GPRS-MS-Class}.  @xref{GPRS-MS-Class}.
@item mnp-Info-Res
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MNP-Info-Res}.  @xref{MNP-Info-Res}.
@end vtable

@node Subscriber-State
@subsubsection Subscriber-State
@vindex Subscriber-State

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-State} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{284}.
This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab284,284,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-State}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item assumed-Idle
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item camel-Busy
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item net-Det-Not-Reachable
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-purged}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_PURGED} @samp{0})
@item @b{imsi-detached}
(@samp{MAP_T_IMSI_DETACHED} @samp{1})
@item @b{restricted-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESTRICTED_AREA} @samp{2})
@item @b{not-registered}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_REGISTERED} @samp{3})
@end table
@item not-Provided-From-VLR
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Super-Charger-Info
@subsubsection Super-Charger-Info
@vindex Super-Charger-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Super-Charger-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{123}.
This OM class represents a choice and exaclty one attribute must appear in an instance of this OM
class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab123,123,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Super-Charger-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item send-Subscriber-Data
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item subscriber-Data-Stored
@code{AgeIndicator ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..6))}  The internal structure of this parameter is
implementation specific.
@end vtable

@node Supported-Codecs-List
@subsubsection Supported-Codecs-List
@vindex Supported-Codecs-List

An instance of OM class @b{Supported-Codecs-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{160}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab160,160,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Supported-Codecs-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item utran-Codec-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Codec-List}.  @xref{Codec-List}.
@item geran-Codec-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Codec-List}.  @xref{Codec-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
@subsubsection T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
@vindex T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List

An instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{245}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab245,245,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}.
@end vtable

@node T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria
@subsubsection T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria
@vindex T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{247}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab247,247,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-BCSM-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{term-attempt-authorized}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERM_ATTEMPT_AUTHORIZED} @samp{12})
@item @b{t-busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_BUSY} @samp{13})
@item @b{t-no-answer}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_NO_ANSWER} @samp{14})
@end table
@item basic-Service-Criteria
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Criteria}.
@xref{Basic-Service-Criteria}.
@item t-Cause-Value-Criteria
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-Cause-Value-Criteria}.
@xref{T-Cause-Value-Criteria}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@subsubsection T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
@vindex T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{261}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab261,261,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfCamelTDPData}) instances of OM class
@b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}.
@xref{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}.
@end vtable

@node T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
@subsubsection T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data
@vindex T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data

An instance of OM class @b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{262}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab262,262,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-Bcsm-Trigger-Detection-Point
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{term-attempt-authorized}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERM_ATTEMPT_AUTHORIZED} @samp{12})
@item @b{t-busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_BUSY} @samp{13})
@item @b{t-no-answer}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_NO_ANSWER} @samp{14})
@end table
@item service-Key
@code{ServiceKey ::= INTEGER(0..2147483647)}
@item gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item default-Call-Handling
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{release-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_CALL} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node T-Cause-Value-Criteria
@subsubsection T-Cause-Value-Criteria
@vindex T-Cause-Value-Criteria

An instance of OM class @b{T-Cause-Value-Criteria} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{253}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab253,253,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-Cause-Value-Criteria}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cause-Value
One to five (@code{maxNumOfCAMEL-T-CauseValueCriteria}) instances of a cause value.
@code{CauseValue ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Type extracted from Cause parameter in ITU-T
Recommendation Q.763.  For the use of cause value refer to ITU-T Recommendation Q.850.
@end vtable

@node T-CSI
@subsubsection T-CSI
@vindex T-CSI

An instance of OM class @b{T-CSI} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{260}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab260,260,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{T-CSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@xref{T-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Data-List}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item camel-Capability-Handling
@code{CamelCapabilityHandling ::= INTEGER(1..16)} Value 1, CAMEL phase 1; value 2, CAMEL phase 2;
value 3, CAMEL phase 3; value 4, CAMEL phase 4.  Receiption of values greater than 4 shall be
treated as CAMEL phase 4.
@item notification-To-CSE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item csi-Active
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Teleservice-List
@subsubsection Teleservice-List
@vindex Teleservice-List

An instance of OM class @b{Teleservice-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{199}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab199,199,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Teleservice-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ext-Teleservice-Code
One to twenty instances of @code{Ext-TeleserviceCode}.

@code{Ext-TeleserviceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))} This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single teleservice, group of teleservices, or all teleservices.  The services are
defined in GSM TS 22.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 87654321,
group (bits 8765) and specific service (bits 4321); octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  If
received, Ext-TeleserviceCode shall be treated according to the exception handling defined for the
operation that uses this type.  Ext-TeleserviceCode includes all values defined for TeleserviceCode.
@end vtable

@node TPDU-Type-Criterion
@subsubsection TPDU-Type-Criterion
@vindex TPDU-Type-Criterion

An instance of OM class @b{TPDU-Type-Criterion} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{235}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab235,235,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{TPDU-Type-Criterion}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mt-Sms-TPDU-Type
One to five (@code{maxNumOfTPDUTypes}) instances of an MT-SMS-TPDU-Type, which is
an enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sms-deliver}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVER} @samp{0})
@item @b{sms-submit-report}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_SUBMIT_REPORT} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-status-report}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_STATUS_REPORT} @samp{2})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Triplet-List
@subsubsection Triplet-List
@vindex Triplet-List

An instance of OM class @b{Triplet-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{133}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab133,133,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Triplet-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Triplet
This optional attribute is one to five instances of OM class @b{Authentication-Triplet}.  @xref{Authentication-Triplet}.
@end vtable

@node UESBI-Iu
@subsubsection UESBI-Iu
@vindex UESBI-Iu

An instance of OM class @b{UESBI-Iu} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{173}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab173,173,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{UESBI-Iu}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item uesbi-IuA
@code{UESBI-IuA ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..128))}  See 3GPP TS 25.413.
@item uesbi-IuB
@code{UESBI-IuB ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..128))}  See 3GPP TS 25.413.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node UMTS-Security-Context-Data
@subsubsection UMTS-Security-Context-Data
@vindex UMTS-Security-Context-Data

An instance of OM class @b{UMTS-Security-Context-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{139}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab139,139,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{UMTS-Security-Context-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ck
@code{CK ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item ik
@code{IK ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item ksi
@code{KSI ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The internal structure is defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Update-Gprs-Location-Arg
@subsubsection Update-Gprs-Location-Arg
@vindex Update-Gprs-Location-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Update-Gprs-Location-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{142}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab142,142,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Update-Gprs-Location-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item sgsn-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an SGSN.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the SGSN.
@item sgsn-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item sgsn-Capability
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SGSN-Capability}.  @xref{SGSN-Capability}.
@item inform-Previous-Network-Entity
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item ps-LCS-Not-Supported-By-UE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item v-Gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item add-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Add-Info}.  @xref{Add-Info}.
@item eps-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{EPS-Info}.  @xref{EPS-Info}.
@item serving-Node-Type-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item skip-Subscriber-Data-Update
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item used-RAT-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_UTRAN} @samp{0})
@item @b{geran}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERAN} @samp{1})
@item @b{gsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSN} @samp{2})
@item @b{i-hspa-evolution}
(@samp{MAP_T_I_HSPA_EVOLUTION} @samp{3})
@item @b{e-utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_UTRAN} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Update-Gprs-Location-Res
@subsubsection Update-Gprs-Location-Res
@vindex Update-Gprs-Location-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Update-Grps-Location-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{143}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab143,143,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Update-Gprs-Location-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item hlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an HLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the HLR.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item add-Capability
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item sgsn-mme-Separation-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Update-Location-Arg
@subsubsection Update-Location-Arg
@vindex Update-Location-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Update-Location-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{119}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab119,119,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Update-Location-Arg}}

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msc-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an MSC.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item vlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of a VLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the VLR.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item vlr-Capability
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{VLR-Capability}.  @xref{VLR-Capability}.
@item inform-Previous-Network-Entity
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item cs-LCS-Not-Supported-By-UE
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item v-Gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item add-Info
This optional attributes is an instance of OM calss @b{Add-Info}. @xref{Add-Info}.
@item paging-Area
@code{PagingArea ::= SEQUENCE SIZE(1..5) OF LocationArea}
@item skip-Subscriber-Data-Update
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Update-Location-Res
@subsubsection Update-Location-Res
@vindex Update-Location-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Update-Location-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{124}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab124,124,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Update-Location-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item hlr-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an HLR.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the HLR.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item add-Capability
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item paging-Area-Capability
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node VBS-Data-List
@subsubsection VBS-Data-List
@vindex VBS-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{VBS-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{272}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab272,272,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{VBS-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item voice-Broadcast-Data
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfVBSGroupIds}) instances of OM class
@b{Voice-Broadcast-Data}.
@xref{Voice-Broadcast-Data}.
@end vtable

@node VGCS-Data-List
@subsubsection VGCS-Data-List
@vindex VGCS-Data-List

An instance of OM class @b{VGCS-Data-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{273}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab273,273,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{VGCS-Data-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item voice-Group-Call-Data
One to fifty (@code{maxNumOfVGCSGroupIds}) instances of OM class
@b{Voice-Group-Call-Data}.
@xref{Voice-Group-Call-Data}.
@end vtable

@node Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info
@subsubsection Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info
@vindex Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{232}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab232,232,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Vlr-Camel-Subscription-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item o-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-CSI}.  @xref{O-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item ss-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-CSI}.  @xref{SS-CSI}.
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item tif-CSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item m-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{M-CSI}.  @xref{M-CSI}.
@item mo-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item vt-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-CSI}.  @xref{T-CSI}.
@item t-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item d-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{D-CSI}.  @xref{D-CSI}.
@item mt-sms-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SMS-CSI}.  @xref{SMS-CSI}.
@item mt-sms-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{MT-SMS-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@end vtable

@node VLR-Capability
@subsubsection VLR-Capability
@vindex VLR-Capability

An instance of OM class @b{VLR-Capability} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{122}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab122,122,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{VLR-Capability}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item supported-Camel-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item solsa-Support-Indicator
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item ist-Support-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{basic-ist-support}
(@samp{MAP_T_BASIC_IST_SUPPORT} @samp{0})
@item @b{ist-command-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_IST_COMMAND_SUPPORTED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item super-Charger-Supported-In-Serving-Network-Entity
An optional instance of OM class @b{Super-Charger-Info}.  @xref{Super-Charger-Info}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@item supported-LCS-Capability-Sets
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{lcs-capability-set1}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET1} @samp{0})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set2}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET2} @samp{1})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set3}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET3} @samp{2})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set4}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET4} @samp{3})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set5}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET5} @samp{4})
@end table
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item supported-RAT-Types-Indicator
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_UTRAN} @samp{0})
@item @b{geran}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERAN} @samp{1})
@item @b{gan}
(@samp{MAP_T_GAN} @samp{2})
@item @b{i-hspa-evolution}
(@samp{MAP_T_I_HSPA_EVOLUTION} @samp{3})
@item @b{e-utran}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_UTRAN} @samp{4})
@end table
@item long-Group-ID-Supported
A Null value whose presence indicates support.
@end vtable

@node Voice-Broadcast-Data
@subsubsection Voice-Broadcast-Data
@vindex Voice-Broadcast-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Voice-Broadcast-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{275}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab275,275,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Voice-Broadcast-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item group-Id
@code{GroupId ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(3))}  When Group-Id is less than six characters in lneght, the
TBCD filler (1111) is used to fill unused half octets.  Referes to the Group Identification as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 43.068/43.069.
@item broadcast-Init-Entitlement
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-Group-Id
@code{Long-GroupId ::= TBCD-STRING (SIZE(4))} When Long-Group-Id is less than eight characters in
length, the TBCD filler (1111) is used to fill unused half octets.  Refers to Group Identification
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 43.068/43.069.
@end vtable

@node Voice-Group-Call-Data
@subsubsection Voice-Group-Call-Data
@vindex Voice-Group-Call-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Voice-Group-Call-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{274}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab274,274,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Voice-Group-Call-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item group-Id
@code{GroupId ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(3))}  When Group-Id is less than six characters in lneght, the
TBCD filler (1111) is used to fill unused half octets.  Referes to the Group Identification as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 43.068/43.069.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item additional-Subscriptions
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{privileged-up-link-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED_UP_LINK_REQUEST} @samp{0})
@item @b{emergency-up-link-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_UP_LINK_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency-reset}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_RESET} @samp{2})
@end table
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@item long-Group-Id
@code{Long-GroupId ::= TBCD-STRING (SIZE(4))} When Long-Group-Id is less than eight characters in
length, the TBCD filler (1111) is used to fill unused half octets.  Refers to Group Identification
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 43.068/43.069.
@end vtable

@node Zone-Code-List
@subsubsection Zone-Code-List
@vindex Zone-Code-List

An instance of OM class @b{Zone-Code-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{223}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab223,223,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Zone-Code-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item zone-Code
@code{ZoneCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Internal structure is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
One to ten instances of a Zone-Code.  A zone code is a two octet string.
@end vtable


@node GSM Operations and Maintenance Package
@subsection GSM Operations and Maintenance Package

@menu
* Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg::
* Activate-Trace-Mode-Res::
* Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg::
* Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res::
* Send-IMSI-Arg::
* Send-IMSI-Res::
* Trace-Depth-List::
* Trace-Event-List::
* Trace-Interface-List::
* Trace-Propagation-List::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg}
@item @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Res}
@item @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg
@subsubsection Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg
@vindex Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{313}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab313,313,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item trace-Reference
@code{TraceReference ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))}
@item trace-Type
@code{TraceType ::= INTEGER(0..255)}  Trace types are fully defined in 3GPP TS 52.008.
@item omc-Id
An address string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item trace-Reference-2
@code{TraceReference2 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))}
@item trace-Depth-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Trace-Depth-List}.  @xref{Trace-Depth-List}.
@item trace-NE-Type-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{msc-s}
(@samp{MAP_T_MSC_S} @samp{0})
@item @b{mgw}
(@samp{MAP_T_MGW} @samp{1})
@item @b{sgsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_SGSN} @samp{2})
@item @b{ggsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_GGSN} @samp{3})
@item @b{rnc}
(@samp{MAP_T_RNC} @samp{4})
@item @b{bm-sc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BM_SC} @samp{5})
@end table
@item trace-Interface-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Trace-Interface-List}.
@xref{Trace-Interface-List}.
@item trace-Event-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Trace-Event-List}.
@xref{Trace-Event-List}.
@end vtable

@node Activate-Trace-Mode-Res
@subsubsection Activate-Trace-Mode-Res
@vindex Activate-Trace-Mode-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{318}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab318,318,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Activate-Trace-Mode-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item trace-Support-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg
@subsubsection Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg
@vindex Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{319}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab319,319,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item trace-Reference
@code{TraceReference ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item trace-Reference-2
@code{TraceReference2 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))}
@end vtable

@node Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res
@subsubsection Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res
@vindex Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{320}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab320,320,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Deactivate-Trace-Mode-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-IMSI-Arg
@subsubsection Send-IMSI-Arg
@vindex Send-IMSI-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-IMSI-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{428}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab428,428,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-IMSI-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
An ISDN address string.
@end vtable

@node Send-IMSI-Res
@subsubsection Send-IMSI-Res
@vindex Send-IMSI-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-IMSI-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{429}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab429,429,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-IMSI-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@end vtable

@node Trace-Depth-List
@subsubsection Trace-Depth-List
@vindex Trace-Depth-List

An instance of OM class @b{Trace-Depth-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{314}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab314,314,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trace-Depth-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msc-s-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item mgw-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item sgsn-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item ggsn-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item rnc-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item bmsc-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
The value @b{medium} is applicable only for RNC.  For other network elements, if value medium is
received, value minimum shall be applied.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Trace-Event-List
@subsubsection Trace-Event-List
@vindex Trace-Event-List

An instance of OM class @b{Trace-Event-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{316}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab316,316,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trace-Event-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msc-s-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mo-mt-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_MT_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{mo-mt-sms}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_MT_SMS} @samp{1})
@item @b{lu-imsi-attach-imsi-detach}
(@samp{MAP_T_LU_IMSI_ATTACH_IMSI_DETACH} @samp{2})
@item @b{handovers}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOVERS} @samp{3})
@item @b{ss}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS} @samp{4})
@end table
@item mgw-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{context}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTEXT} @samp{0})
@end table
@item sgsn-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{pdp-context}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT} @samp{0})
@item @b{mo-mt-sms}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_MT_SMS} @samp{1})
@item @b{rau-gprs-attach-gprs-detach}
(@samp{MAP_T_RAU_GPRS_ATTACH_GRPS_DETACH} @samp{2})
@item @b{mbms-context}
(@samp{MAP_T_MBMS_CONTEXT} @samp{3})
@end table
@item ggsn-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{pdp-context}
(@samp{MAP_T_PDP_CONTEXT} @samp{0})
@item @b{mbms-context}
(@samp{MAP_T_MBMS_CONTEXT} @samp{1})
@end table
@item bmsc-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mbms-multicast-service-activation}
(@samp{MAP_T_MBMS_MULTICAST_SERVICE_ACTIVATION} @samp{0})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Trace-Interface-List
@subsubsection Trace-Interface-List
@vindex Trace-Interface-List

An instance of OM class @b{Trace-Interface-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{315}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab315,315,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trace-Interface-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msc-s-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{a}
(@samp{MAP_T_A} @samp{0})
@item @b{iu}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU} @samp{1})
@item @b{mc}
(@samp{MAP_T_MC} @samp{2})
@item @b{map-g}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_G} @samp{3})
@item @b{map-b}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_B} @samp{4})
@item @b{map-e}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_E} @samp{5})
@item @b{map-f}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_F} @samp{6})
@item @b{cap}
(@samp{MAP_T_CAP} @samp{7})
@item @b{map-d}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_D} @samp{8})
@item @b{map-c}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_C} @samp{9})
@end table
@item mgw-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mc}
(@samp{MAP_T_MC} @samp{0})
@item @b{nb-up}
(@samp{MAP_T_NB_UP} @samp{1})
@item @b{iu-up}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU_UP} @samp{2})
@end table
@item sgsn-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{gb}
(@samp{MAP_T_GB} @samp{0})
@item @b{iu}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU} @samp{1})
@item @b{gn}
(@samp{MAP_T_GN} @samp{2})
@item @b{map-gr}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_GR} @samp{3})
@item @b{map-gd}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_GD} @samp{4})
@item @b{map-gf}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_GF} @samp{5})
@item @b{gs}
(@samp{MAP_T_GS} @samp{6})
@item @b{ge}
(@samp{MAP_T_GE} @samp{7})
@end table
@item ggsn-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{gn}
(@samp{MAP_T_GN} @samp{0})
@item @b{gi}
(@samp{MAP_T_GI} @samp{1})
@item @b{gmb}
(@samp{MAP_T_GMB} @samp{2})
@end table
@item rnc-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{iu}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU} @samp{0})
@item @b{iur}
(@samp{MAP_T_IUR} @samp{1})
@item @b{iub}
(@samp{MAP_T_IUB} @samp{2})
@item @b{uu}
(@samp{MAP_T_UU} @samp{3})
@end table
@item bmsc-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{gmb}
(@samp{MAP_T_GMB} @samp{0})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Trace-Propagation-List
@subsubsection Trace-Propagation-List
@vindex Trace-Propagation-List

An instance of OM class @b{Trace-Propagation-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{317}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab317,317,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trace-Propagation-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item trace-Reference
@code{TraceReference ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..2))}
@item trace-Type
@code{TraceType ::= INTEGER(0..255)}  Trace types are fully defined in 3GPP TS 52.008.
@item trace-Reference-2
@code{TraceReference2 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))}
@item trace-Recording-Session-Reference
@code{TraceRecordingSessionReference ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}
@item rnc-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
@item rnc-Interface-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{iu}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU} @samp{0})
@item @b{iur}
(@samp{MAP_T_IUR} @samp{1})
@item @b{iub}
(@samp{MAP_T_IUB} @samp{2})
@item @b{uu}
(@samp{MAP_T_UU} @samp{3})
@end table
@item msc-s-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
@item msc-s-Interface-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{a}
(@samp{MAP_T_A} @samp{0})
@item @b{iu}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU} @samp{1})
@item @b{mc}
(@samp{MAP_T_MC} @samp{2})
@item @b{map-g}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_G} @samp{3})
@item @b{map-b}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_B} @samp{4})
@item @b{map-e}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_E} @samp{5})
@item @b{map-f}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_F} @samp{6})
@item @b{cap}
(@samp{MAP_T_CAP} @samp{7})
@item @b{map-d}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_D} @samp{8})
@item @b{map-c}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAP_C} @samp{9})
@end table
@item msc-s-Event-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mo-mt-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_MT_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{mo-mt-sms}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_MT_SMS} @samp{1})
@item @b{lu-imsi-attach-imsi-detach}
(@samp{MAP_T_LU_IMSI_ATTACH_IMSI_DETACH} @samp{2})
@item @b{handovers}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOVERS} @samp{3})
@item @b{ss}
(@samp{MAP_T_SS} @samp{4})
@end table
@item mgw-Trace-Depth
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{minimum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MINIMUM} @samp{0})
@item @b{medium}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEDIUM} @samp{1})
@item @b{maximum}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAXIMUM} @samp{2})
@end table
@item mgw-Interface-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{mc}
(@samp{MAP_T_MC} @samp{0})
@item @b{nb-up}
(@samp{MAP_T_NB_UP} @samp{1})
@item @b{iu-up}
(@samp{MAP_T_IU_UP} @samp{2})
@end table
@item mgw-Event-List
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{context}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTEXT} @samp{0})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node GSM Call Handling Package
@subsection GSM Call Handling Package

@menu
* Call-Report-Data::
* Camel-Info::
* Camel-Routing-Info::
* CCBS-Indicators::
* CUG-Check-Info::
* Event-Report-Data::
* Extended-Routing-Info::
* Forwarding-Data::
* Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info::
* IST-Alert-Arg::
* IST-Alert-Res::
* IST-Command-Arg::
* IST-Command-Res::
* Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg::
* Provide-Roaming-Number-Res::
* Release-Resources-Arg::
* Release-Resources-Res::
* Remote-User-Free-Arg::
* Remote-User-Free-Res::
* Resume-Call-Handling-Arg::
* Resume-Call-Handling-Res::
* Routing-Info::
* Send-Routing-Info-Arg::
* Send-Routing-Info-Res::
* Set-Reporting-State-Arg::
* Set-Reporting-State-Res::
* Status-Report-Arg::
* Status-Report-Res::
* UU-Data::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{IST-Alert-Arg}
@item @b{IST-Command-Arg}
@item @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg}
@item @b{Release-Resources-Arg}
@item @b{Remote-User-Free-Arg}
@item @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Routing-Info-Arg}
@item @b{Set-Reporting-State-Arg}
@item @b{Status-Report-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{IST-Alert-Res}
@item @b{IST-Command-Res}
@item @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Res}
@item @b{Release-Resources-Res}
@item @b{Remote-User-Free-Res}
@item @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Res}
@item @b{Send-Routing-Info-Res}
@item @b{Set-Reporting-State-Res}
@item @b{Status-Report-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Call-Report-Data
@subsubsection Call-Report-Data
@vindex Call-Report-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Report-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{339}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab339,339,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Report-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item monitoring-Mode
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{a-side}
(@samp{MAP_T_A_SIDE} @samp{0})
@item @b{b-side}
(@samp{MAP_T_B_SIDE} @samp{1})
@end table
Values @samp{2} to @samp{10} shall be mapped to @samp{0}; values greater than @samp{10} mapped to
@samp{1}.
@item call-Outcome
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{success}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUCCESS} @samp{0})
@item @b{failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_FAILURE} @samp{1})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{2})
@end table
Values @samp{3} to @samp{10} shall be mapped to @samp{0}; @samp{11} to @samp{20}, @samp{1}, and
greater than @samp{20}, @samp{2}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Camel-Info
@subsubsection Camel-Info
@vindex Camel-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Camel-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{331}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab331,331,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Camel-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item supported-Camel-Phases
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item suppress-T-CSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Camel-Routing-Info
@subsubsection Camel-Routing-Info
@vindex Camel-Routing-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Camel-Routing-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{333}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab333,333,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Camel-Routing-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Data}.  @xref{Forwarding-Data}.
@item gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@xref{Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CCBS-Indicators
@subsubsection CCBS-Indicators
@vindex CCBS-Indicators

An instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Indicators} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{324}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab324,324,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CCBS-Indicators}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Possible
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item keep-CCBS-Call-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CUG-Check-Info
@subsubsection CUG-Check-Info
@vindex CUG-Check-Info

An instance of OM class @b{CUG-Check-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{321}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab321,321,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CUG-Check-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cug-Interlock
@code{CUG-Interlock ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
@item cug-Outgoing-Access
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Event-Report-Data
@subsubsection Event-Report-Data
@vindex Event-Report-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Event-Report-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{338}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab338,338,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Event-Report-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Subscriber-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ccbs-not-idle}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_NOT_IDLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{ccbs-idle}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_IDLE} @samp{1})
@item @b{ccbs-not-reachable}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_NOT_REACHABLE} @samp{2})
@end table
Values of @samp{3} to @samp{10} shall be mapped to @samp{0}; @samp{11} to @samp{20}, mapped to
@samp{1}; values greater than @samp{20}, to @samp{2}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Extended-Routing-Info
@subsubsection Extended-Routing-Info
@vindex Extended-Routing-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Extended-Routing-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{332}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab332,332,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Extended-Routing-Info}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item routing-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info}.  @xref{Routing-Info}.
@item camel-Routing-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Camel-Routing-Info}.  @xref{Camel-Routing-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Forwarding-Data
@subsubsection Forwarding-Data
@vindex Forwarding-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{326}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab326,326,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forwarding-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarded-To-Number
An ISDN Address String.
When this data type is sent from an HLR that supports CAMEL Phase 2 to a GMSC that supports CAMEL
Phase 2 the GMSC shall not check the format of the number.
@item forwarded-To-Subaddress
An ISDN Subaddress String.
@item forwarding-Options
@code{ForwardingOptions ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} Encoded as follows:
@table @asis
@item bit @samp{8} --- notification to forwarding party
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0} @tab no notification
@item @samp{1} @tab notification
@end multitable
@item bit @samp{7} --- redirecting presentation
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0} @tab no presentation
@item @samp{1} @tab presentation
@end multitable
@item bit @samp{6} --- notification to calling party
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0} @tab no notification
@item @samp{1} @tab notification
@end multitable
@item bit @samp{5}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{0} @tab unused
@end multitable
@item bits @samp{43} --- forwarding reason
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{00} @tab ms not reachable
@item @samp{01} @tab ms busy
@item @samp{10} @tab no reply
@item @samp{11} @tab unconditional when used in a SRI Result, or call deflection when used in a RCH
Argument.
@end multitable
@item bits @samp{21}
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .6
@item @samp{00} @tab (unused)
@end multitable
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-Forwarded-To-Number
@code{FTN-AddressString ::= AddressString (SIZE(1..15))}  This type is used to represent
forwarded-to numbers.  If NAI is ``international'', the first digits represent the country code (CC)
and the network destination code (NDC) as for E.164.
@end vtable

@node Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info
@subsubsection Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info
@vindex Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{334}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab334,334,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Gmsc-Camel-Subscription-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item t-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-CSI}.  @xref{T-CSI}.
@item o-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-CSI}.  @xref{O-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item t-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{T-BCSM-CAMEL-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item d-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{D-CSI}.  @xref{D-CSI}.
@end vtable

@node IST-Alert-Arg
@subsubsection IST-Alert-Arg
@vindex IST-Alert-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{IST-Alert-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{343}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab343,343,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{IST-Alert-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node IST-Alert-Res
@subsubsection IST-Alert-Res
@vindex IST-Alert-Res

An instance of OM class @b{IST-Alert-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{344}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab344,344,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{IST-Alert-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ist-Alert-Timer
@code{IST-AlertTimerValue ::= INTEGER(15..255)}
@item ist-Information-Withdraw
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item call-Termination-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{terminate-call-activity-referred}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATE_CALL_ACTIVITY_REFERRED} @samp{0})
@item @b{terminate-all-call-activities}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATE_ALL_CALL_ACTIVITIES} @samp{1})
@end table
Values @samp{2} to @samp{10} are mapped to @samp{0}; greater than @samp{10}, @samp{1}.  In MSCs not
supporting linkage of all call activities, any value received shall be interpreted as
@b{terminate-call-activity-referered}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node IST-Command-Arg
@subsubsection IST-Command-Arg
@vindex IST-Command-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{IST-Command-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{345}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab345,345,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{IST-Command-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node IST-Command-Res
@subsubsection IST-Command-Res
@vindex IST-Command-Res

An instance of OM class @b{IST-Command-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{346}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab346,346,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{IST-Command-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg
@subsubsection Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg
@vindex Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{327}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab327,327,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msc-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an MSC.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item gsm-Bearer-Capability
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item network-Signal-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item suppression-Of-Announcement
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item gmsc-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item call-Reference-Number
@code{CallReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))}
@item or-Interrogation
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item ccbs-Call
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item supported-Camel-Phases-In-Interrogating-Node
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item additional-Signal-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Ext-External-Signal-Info}.
@item or-Not-Supported-In-GMSC
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item pre-Paging-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item suppress-VT-CSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs-In-Interrogating-Node
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item mt-Roaming-Retry-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item paging-Area
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Paging-Area}.  @xref{Paging-Area}.
@item call-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@end vtable

@node Provide-Roaming-Number-Res
@subsubsection Provide-Roaming-Number-Res
@vindex Provide-Roaming-Number-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{328}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab328,328,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Roaming-Number-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item roaming-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item release-Resources-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Release-Resources-Arg
@subsubsection Release-Resources-Arg
@vindex Release-Resources-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Release-Resources-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{347}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab347,347,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Release-Resources-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msrn
An ISDN address string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Release-Resources-Res
@subsubsection Release-Resources-Res
@vindex Release-Resources-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Release-Resources-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{348}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab348,348,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Release-Resources-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Remote-User-Free-Arg
@subsubsection Remote-User-Free-Arg
@vindex Remote-User-Free-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Remote-User-Free-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{341}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab341,341,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Remote-User-Free-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item call-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.  @xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item ccbs-Feature
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature}.  @xref{CCBS-Feature}.
@item translated-B-Number
An ISDN address stirng.
@item replace-B-Number
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Remote-User-Free-Res
@subsubsection Remote-User-Free-Res
@vindex Remote-User-Free-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Remote-User-Free-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{342}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab342,342,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Remote-User-Free-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ruf-Outcome
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{accepted}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACCEPTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{rejected}
(@samp{MAP_T_REJECTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-reponse-from-free-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_RESPONSE_FROM_FREE_MS} @samp{2})
@item @b{no-reponse-from-busy-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_RESPONSE_FROM_BUSY_MS} @samp{3})
@item @b{udub-from-free-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_UDUB_FROM_FREE_MS} @samp{4})
@item @b{udub-from-busy-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_UDUB_FROM_BUSY_MS} @samp{5})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Resume-Call-Handling-Arg
@subsubsection Resume-Call-Handling-Arg
@vindex Resume-Call-Handling-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{425}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab425,425,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Reference-Number
@code{CallReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))}
@item basic-Service-Group
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item forwarding-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Data}.  @xref{Forwarding-Data}.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item cug-Check-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Check-Info}.  @xref{CUG-Check-Info}.
@item o-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-CSI}.  @xref{O-CSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item ccbs-Possible
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item uu-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{UU-Data}.  @xref{UU-Data}.
@item all-Information-Sent
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item d-CSI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{D-CSI}.  @xref{D-CSI}.
@item o-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@xref{O-Bcsm-Camel-TDP-Criteria-List}.
@item basic-Service-Group-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item mt-Roaming-Retry
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Resume-Call-Handling-Res
@subsubsection Resume-Call-Handling-Res
@vindex Resume-Call-Handling-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{330}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab330,330,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Routing-Info
@subsubsection Routing-Info
@vindex Routing-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{325}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab325,325,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Routing-Info}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instances of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item roaming-Number
An ISDN Address String.
@item forwarding-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Data}.  @xref{Forwarding-Data}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Routing-Info-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Routing-Info-Arg
@vindex Send-Routing-Info-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Routing-Info-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{322}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab322,322,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Routing-Info-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item cug-Check-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Check-Info}.  @xref{CUG-Check-Info}.
@item number-Of-Forwarding
@code{NumberOfForwarding ::= INTEGER (1..5)}
@item interrogation-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{basic-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_BASIC_CALL} @samp{0})
@item @b{forwarding}
(@samp{MAP_T_FORWARDING} @samp{2})
@end table
@item or-Interrogation
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item or-Capability
@code{OR-Phase ::= INTEGER(1..127)}
@item gmsc-Or-gsmSCF-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item call-Reference-Number
@code{CallReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))}
@item forwarding-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-reachable}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_REACHABLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-reply}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_REPLY} @samp{2})
@end table
@item basic-Service-Group
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item network-Signal-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item camel-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Camel-Info}.  @xref{Camel-Info}.
@item suppression-Of-Announcement
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item ccbs-Call
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item supported-CCBS-Phase
@code{SupportedCCBS-Phase ::= INTEGER(1..127)}
@item additional-Signal-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Ext-External-Signal-Info}.
@item ist-Support-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{basic-ist-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_BASIC_IST_SUPPORTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{ist-command-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_IST_COMMAND_SUPPORTED} @samp{1})
@end table
Values greater than 1 shall be mapped to 1.
@item pre-Paging-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item call-Diversion-Treatment-Indicator
@code{CallDiversionTreatmentIndicator ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} call diversion allowed: xxxx xx01;
call diversion not allowed xxxx xx10; network default is call diversion allowed.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item suppress-VT-CSI
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item suppress-Incoming-Call-Barring
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item gsmSCF-Initiated-Call
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item basic-Service-Group-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item network-Signal-Info-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item suppress-MT-SS
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{suppress-cug}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPRESS_CUG} @samp{0})
@item @b{suppress-ccbs}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPRESS_CCBS} @samp{1})
@end table
@item mt-Roaming-Retry-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item call-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@end vtable

@node Send-Routing-Info-Res
@subsubsection Send-Routing-Info-Res
@vindex Send-Routing-Info-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Routing-Info-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{323}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab323,323,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Routing-Info-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.

IMSI must be present if the request is not segmented.  If the result is segmented (TC-Result-NL),
the IMSI must be present in one segmented transmission.
@item extended-Routing-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extended-Routing-Info}.
@xref{Extended-Routing-Info}.
@item cug-Check-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CUG-Check-Info}.  @xref{CUG-Check-Info}.
@item cug-Subscription-Flag
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item subscriber-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Info}.  @xref{Subscriber-Info}.
@item ss-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-List}.  @xref{SS-List}.
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item forwarding-Interrogation-Required
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item vmsc-Address
An ISDN Address String.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item naea-Preferred-CI
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{NAEA-Preferred-CI}.  @xref{NAEA-Preferred-CI}.
@item ccbs-Indicators
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Indicators}.  @xref{CCBS-Indicators}.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item number-Portability-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-known-to-be-ported}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_KNOWN_TO_BE_PORTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{own-number-ported-out}
(@samp{MAP_T_OWN_NUMBER_PORTED_OUT} @samp{1})
@item @b{foreign-number-ported-to-foreign-network}
(@samp{MAP_T_FOREIGN_NUMBER_PORTED_TO_FOREIGN_NETWORK} @samp{2})
@item @b{own-number-not-ported-out}
(@samp{MAP_T_OWN_NUMBER_NOT_PORTED_OUT} @samp{4})
@item @b{foreign-number-ported-in}
(@samp{MAP_T_FOREIGN_NUMBER_PORTED_IN} @samp{5})
@end table
@item ist-Alert-Timer
@code{IST-AlertTimerValue ::= INTEGER (15..255)}
@item supported-Camel-Phases-In-VMSC
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{phase-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{phase-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{phase-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{phase-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_PHASE_4} @samp{3})
@end table
@item offered-Camel4-CSIs-In-VMSC
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{o-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_CSI} @samp{0})
@item @b{d-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_D_CSI} @samp{1})
@item @b{vt-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_VT_CSI} @samp{2})
@item @b{t-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_T_CSI} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-sms-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_SMS_CSI} @samp{4})
@item @b{mg-csi}
(@samp{MAP_T_MG_CSI} @samp{5})
@item @b{psi-enhancements}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSI_ENHANCEMENTS} @samp{6})
@end table
@item routing-Info-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info}.  @xref{Routing-Info}.
@item ss-List-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-List}.  @xref{SS-List}.
@item basic-Service-2
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Ext-Basic-Service-Code}.
@item allowed-Services
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{first-service-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_FIRST_SERVICE_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{second-service-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SECOND_SERVICE_ALLOWED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item unavailability-Cause
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{bearer-service-not-provisioned}
(@samp{MAP_T_BEARER_SERVICE_NOT_PROVISIONED} @samp{1})
@item @b{teleservice-not-provisioned}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELESERVICE_NOT_PROVISIONED} @samp{2})
@item @b{absent-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{3})
@item @b{busy-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{4})
@item @b{call-barred}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_BARRED} @samp{5})
@item @b{cug-reject}
(@samp{MAP_T_CUG_REJECT} @samp{6})
@end table
@item release-Resources-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item gsm-Bearer-Capability
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.
@xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Set-Reporting-State-Arg
@subsubsection Set-Reporting-State-Arg
@vindex Set-Reporting-State-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Resume-Call-Handling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{335}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab335,335,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Set-Reporting-State-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item ccbs-Monitoring
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{stop-monitoring}
(@samp{MAP_T_STOP_MONITORING} @samp{0})
@item @b{start-monitoring}
(@samp{MAP_T_START_MONITORING} @samp{1})
@end table
Values from @samp{2} to @samp{10} shall be mapped to @samp{0}.  Values greater than @samp{10} sahll
be mapped to @samp{1}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Set-Reporting-State-Res
@subsubsection Set-Reporting-State-Res
@vindex Set-Reporting-State-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Set-Reporting-State-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{336}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab336,336,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Set-Reporting-State-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Subscriber-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ccbs-not-idle}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_NOT_IDLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{ccbs-idle}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_IDLE} @samp{1})
@item @b{ccbs-not-reachable}
(@samp{MAP_T_CCBS_NOT_REACHABLE} @samp{2})
@end table
Values of @samp{3} to @samp{10} shall be mapped to @samp{0}; @samp{11} to @samp{20}, mapped to
@samp{1}; values greater than @samp{20}, to @samp{2}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Status-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Status-Report-Arg
@vindex Status-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Status-Report-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{337}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab337,337,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Status-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item event-Report-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Event-Report-Data}.  @xref{Event-Report-Data}.
@item call-Report-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Report-Data}.  @xref{Call-Report-Data}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Status-Report-Res
@subsubsection Status-Report-Res
@vindex Status-Report-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Status-Report-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{340}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab340,340,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Status-Report-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node UU-Data
@subsubsection UU-Data
@vindex UU-Data

An instance of OM class @b{UU-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{329}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab329,329,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{UU-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item uu-Indicator
@code{UUIndicator ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Octets are coded according to ETS 300 356.
@item uui
@code{UUI ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..131))} Octets are coded accoridng to ETS 300 356.
@item uusCF-Interaction
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node GSM Supplementary Service Package
@subsection GSM Supplementary Service Package

@menu
* Activate-SS-Arg::
* Activate-SS-Res::
* Basic-Service-Group-List::
* Call-Barring-Feature::
* Call-Barring-Feature-List::
* Call-Barring-Info::
* CCBS-Data::
* CCBS-Feature::
* CCBS-Feature-List::
* Deactivate-SS-Arg::
* Deactivate-SS-Res::
* Erase-CC-Entry-Arg::
* Erase-CC-Entry-Res::
* Erase-SS-Arg::
* Erase-SS-Res::
* Forwarding-Feature::
* Forwarding-Feature-List::
* Forwarding-Info::
* Generic-Service-Info::
* Get-Password-Arg::
* Get-Password-Res::
* Interrogate-SS-Arg::
* Interrogate-SS-Res::
* Notify-USSD-Arg::
* Notify-USSD-Res::
* Process-USSD-Arg::
* Process-USSD-Res::
* Register-CC-Entry-Arg::
* Register-CC-Entry-Res::
* Register-Password-Arg::
* Register-Password-Res::
* Register-SS-Arg::
* Register-SS-Res::
* SS-Data::
* SS-Event-Specification::
* SS-For-BS-Code::
* SS-Info::
* SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg::
* SS-Invocation-Notification-Res::
* SS-List::
* SS-Subscription-Option::
* USSD-Arg::
* USSD-Res::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Activate-SS-Arg}
@item @b{Deactivate-SS-Arg}
@item @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Arg}
@item @b{Erase-SS-Arg}
@item @b{Get-Password-Arg}
@item @b{Interrogate-SS-Arg}
@item @b{Notify-USSD-Arg}
@item @b{Process-USSD-Arg}
@item @b{Register-CC-Entry-Arg}
@item @b{Register-Password-Arg}
@item @b{Register-SS-Arg}
@item @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg}
@item @b{USSD-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Activate-SS-Res}
@item @b{Deactivate-SS-Res}
@item @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Res}
@item @b{Erase-SS-Res}
@item @b{Get-Password-Res}
@item @b{Interrogate-SS-Res}
@item @b{Notify-USSD-Res}
@item @b{Process-USSD-Res}
@item @b{Register-CC-Entry-Res}
@item @b{Register-Password-Res}
@item @b{Register-SS-Res}
@item @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Res}
@item @b{USSD-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Activate-SS-Arg
@subsubsection Activate-SS-Arg
@vindex Activate-SS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Activate-SS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{430}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab430,430,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Activate-SS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

This OM class encodes the same as @ref{USSD-Arg}.

@node Activate-SS-Res
@subsubsection Activate-SS-Res
@vindex Activate-SS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Activate-SS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{431}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab431,431,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Activate-SS-Res}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info}.  @xref{Forwarding-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Data}.  @xref{SS-Data}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

This OM class encodes the same as @ref{USSD-Res}.

@node Basic-Service-Group-List
@subsubsection Basic-Service-Group-List
@vindex Basic-Service-Group-List

An instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Group-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{367}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab367,367,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Basic-Service-Group-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service-Code
One to thirteen (@code{maxNumOfBasicServiceGroups}) instances of OM class
@b{Basic-Service-Code}.
@xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@end vtable

@node Call-Barring-Feature
@subsubsection Call-Barring-Feature
@vindex Call-Barring-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{356}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab356,356,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Barring-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Call-Barring-Feature-List
@subsubsection Call-Barring-Feature-List
@vindex Call-Barring-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{355}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab355,355,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Barring-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Barring-Feature
One to thirteen (@code{maxNumOfBasicServiceGroups}) instances of OM class
@b{Call-Barring-Feature}.
@xref{Call-Barring-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node Call-Barring-Info
@subsubsection Call-Barring-Info
@vindex Call-Barring-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{354}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab354,354,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Call-Barring-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item call-Barring-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Feature-List}.
@xref{Call-Barring-Feature-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CCBS-Data
@subsubsection CCBS-Data
@vindex CCBS-Data

An instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{372}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab372,372,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CCBS-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Feature
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature}.  @xref{CCBS-Feature}.
@item translated-B-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item service-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{clir-invoked}
(@samp{MAP_T_CLIR_INVOKED} @samp{0})
@item @b{camel-invoked}
(@samp{MAP_T_CAMEL_INVOKED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item call-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.  @xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item network-Signal-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{External-Signal-Info}.  @xref{External-Signal-Info}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CCBS-Feature
@subsubsection CCBS-Feature
@vindex CCBS-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{362}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab362,362,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CCBS-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Index
@code{CCBS-Index ::= INTEGER (1..5)}
@item b-Subscriber-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item b-Subscriber-Subaddress
An ISDN subaddress string.
@item basic-Service-Group
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CCBS-Feature-List
@subsubsection CCBS-Feature-List
@vindex CCBS-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{361}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab361,361,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CCBS-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Feature
One to five (@code{maxNumOfCCBS-Requests}) instances of OM class
@b{CCBS-Feature}.
@xref{CCBS-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node Deactivate-SS-Arg
@subsubsection Deactivate-SS-Arg
@vindex Deactivate-SS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Deactivate-SS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{432}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab432,432,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Deactivate-SS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

This OM class encodes the same as @ref{USSD-Arg}.

@node Deactivate-SS-Res
@subsubsection Deactivate-SS-Res
@vindex Deactivate-SS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Deactivate-SS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{433}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab433,433,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Deactivate-SS-Res}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info}.  @xref{Forwarding-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Data}.  @xref{SS-Data}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

This OM class encodes the same as @ref{USSD-Res}.

@node Erase-CC-Entry-Arg
@subsubsection Erase-CC-Entry-Arg
@vindex Erase-CC-Entry-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{374}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab374,374,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ccbs-Index
@code{CCBS-Index ::= INTEGER (1..5)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Erase-CC-Entry-Res
@subsubsection Erase-CC-Entry-Res
@vindex Erase-CC-Entry-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{375}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab375,375,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Erase-CC-Entry-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Erase-SS-Arg
@subsubsection Erase-SS-Arg
@vindex Erase-SS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Erase-SS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{434}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab434,434,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Erase-SS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Erase-SS-Res
@subsubsection Erase-SS-Res
@vindex Erase-SS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Erase-SS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{435}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab435,435,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Erase-SS-Res}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info}.  @xref{Forwarding-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Data}.  @xref{SS-Data}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Forwarding-Feature
@subsubsection Forwarding-Feature
@vindex Forwarding-Feature

An instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Feature} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{353}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab353,353,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forwarding-Feature}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item forwarded-To-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item forwarded-To-Subaddress
An ISDN subaddress string.
@item forwarding-Options
@code{ForwardingOptions ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item no-Reply-Condition-Time
@code{NoReplyConditionTime ::= INTEGER(5..30)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-Forwarded-To-Number
@code{FTN-AddressString ::= AddressString (SIZE(1..15))}  This type is used to represent
forwarded-to numbers.  If NAI is ``international'', the first digits represent the country code (CC)
and the network destination code (NDC) as for E.164.
@end vtable

@node Forwarding-Feature-List
@subsubsection Forwarding-Feature-List
@vindex Forwarding-Feature-List

An instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Feature-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{352}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab352,352,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forwarding-Feature-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Feature
One to thirteen (@code{maxNumOfBasicServiceGroups}) instances of OM class
@b{Forwarding-Feature}.
@xref{Forwarding-Feature}.
@end vtable

@node Forwarding-Info
@subsubsection Forwarding-Info
@vindex Forwarding-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{351}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab351,351,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forwarding-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item forwarding-Feature-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Feature-List}.
@xref{Forwarding-Feature-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Generic-Service-Info
@subsubsection Generic-Service-Info
@vindex Generic-Service-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{360}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab360,360,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Generic-Service-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item cli-Restriction-Option
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{permanent}
(@samp{MAP_T_PERMANENT} @samp{0})
@item @b{temporary-default-restricted}
(@samp{MAP_T_TEMPORARY_DEFAULT_RESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{temporary-default-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_TEMPORARY_DEFAULT_ALLOWED} @samp{2})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item maximum-Entitled-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item default-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item ccbs-Feature-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature-List}.  @xref{CCBS-Feature-List}.
@item nbr-SB
@code{MaxMC-Bearers ::= INTEGER (2..7)}
@item nbr-User
@code{MC-Bearers ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@item nbr-SN
@code{MC-Bearers ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@end vtable

@node Get-Password-Arg
@subsubsection Get-Password-Arg
@vindex Get-Password-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Get-Password-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{436}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab436,436,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Get-Password-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Get-Password-Res
@subsubsection Get-Password-Res
@vindex Get-Password-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Get-Password-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{437}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab437,437,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Get-Password-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item password
@code{Password ::= NumericString (FROM (0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9)) (SIZE(4))}
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Interrogate-SS-Arg
@subsubsection Interrogate-SS-Arg
@vindex Interrogate-SS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Interrogate-SS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{438}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab438,438,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Interrogate-SS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Interrogate-SS-Res
@subsubsection Interrogate-SS-Res
@vindex Interrogate-SS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Interrogate-SS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{363}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab363,363,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Interrogate-SS-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item basic-Service-Group-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@xref{Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@item forwarding-Feature-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Feature-List}.
@xref{Forwarding-Feature-List}.
@item generic-Service-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Info}.  @xref{Generic-Service-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Notify-USSD-Arg
@subsubsection Notify-USSD-Arg
@vindex Notify-USSD-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Notify-USSD-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{439}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab439,439,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Notify-USSD-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ussd-Data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item ussd-String
@code{USSD-String ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..160))} The structure of the contents of the USSD-String
is dependent on the USSD-DataCodingScheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Notify-USSD-Res
@subsubsection Notify-USSD-Res
@vindex Notify-USSD-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Notify-USSD-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{440}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab440,440,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Notify-USSD-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @dfn
@item ack (Boolean) ::= TRUE
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Process-USSD-Arg
@subsubsection Process-USSD-Arg
@vindex Process-USSD-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Process-USSD-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{441}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab441,441,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Process-USSD-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ussd-Data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item ussd-String
@code{USSD-String ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..160))} The structure of the contents of the USSD-String
is dependent on the USSD-DataCodingScheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Process-USSD-Res
@subsubsection Process-USSD-Res
@vindex Process-USSD-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Process-USSD-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{442}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab442,442,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Process-USSD-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ussd-Data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Coding Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item ussd-String
@code{USSD-String ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..160))}  The structure of the contents of the USSD-String
is dependent on the USSD-DataCodingScheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Register-CC-Entry-Arg
@subsubsection Register-CC-Entry-Arg
@vindex Register-CC-Entry-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Register-CC-Entry-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{371}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab371,371,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-CC-Entry-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ccbs-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Data}.  @xref{CCBS-Data}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Register-CC-Entry-Res
@subsubsection Register-CC-Entry-Res
@vindex Register-CC-Entry-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Register-CC-Entry-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{373}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab373,373,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-CC-Entry-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ccbs-Feature
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{CCBS-Feature}.  @xref{CCBS-Feature}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Register-Password-Arg
@subsubsection Register-Password-Arg
@vindex Register-Password-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Register-Password-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{443}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab443,443,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-Password-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Register-Password-Res
@subsubsection Register-Password-Res
@vindex Register-Password-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Register-Password-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{444}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab444,444,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-Password-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item password
@code{Password ::= NumericString (FROM (0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9)) (SIZE(4))}
@end vtable

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node Register-SS-Arg
@subsubsection Register-SS-Arg
@vindex Register-SS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Register-SS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{349}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab349,349,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-SS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item forwarded-To-Number
An address string.
@item forwarded-To-Subaddress
An ISDN subaddress string.
@item no-Reply-Condition-Time
@code{NoReplyConditionTime ::= INTEGER(5..30)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item default-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item nbr-User
@code{MC-Bearers ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Register-SS-Res
@subsubsection Register-SS-Res
@vindex Register-SS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Register-SS-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{445}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab445,445,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Register-SS-Res}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info}.  @xref{Forwarding-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Data}.  @xref{SS-Data}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

This OM class does not directly correspond to an ASN.1 type in TS 29.002.

@node SS-Data
@subsubsection SS-Data
@vindex SS-Data

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{357}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab357,357,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item ss-Status
@code{SS-Status ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
This parameter refers to the state information of individual supplementary services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
SS-Status is a one byte octet string where bits 8765 are unused and coded zero.
Bit 4 is the ``Q bit''; 3, the ``P bit'', 2 the ``R bit'', 1, ``A bit''.  These bits are defined in
3GPP TS 23.011.
@item ss-Subscription-Option
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Subscription-Option}.
@xref{SS-Subscription-Option}.
@item basic-Service-Group-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@xref{Basic-Service-Group-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item default-Priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item nbr-User
@code{MC-Bearers ::= INTEGER(1..7)}
@end vtable

@node SS-Event-Specification
@subsubsection SS-Event-Specification
@vindex SS-Event-Specification

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Event-Specification} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{370}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab370,370,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Event-Specification}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Event-Spec
One to two (@code{maxEventSpecification}) instances of AddressString.
@end vtable

@node SS-For-BS-Code
@subsubsection SS-For-BS-Code
@vindex SS-For-BS-Code

An instance of OM class @b{SS-For-BS-Code} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{359}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab359,359,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-For-BS-Code}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@item basic-Service
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Basic-Service-Code}.  @xref{Basic-Service-Code}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item long-FTN-Supported
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node SS-Info
@subsubsection SS-Info
@vindex SS-Info

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{350}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab350,350,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Info}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item forwarding-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Forwarding-Info}.  @xref{Forwarding-Info}.
@item call-Barring-Info
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Call-Barring-Info}.  @xref{Call-Barring-Info}.
@item ss-Data
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Data}.  @xref{SS-Data}.
@end vtable

@node SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg
@subsubsection SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg
@vindex SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{368}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab368,368,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item ss-Event
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}  The following SS-Code values are allowed: @b{ect},
@code{'00110001'B}, @b{multi-pty}, @code{'01010001'B}, @b{cd}, @code{'00100100'B}, @b{ccbs},
@code{'01000100'B}.
@item ss-Event-Specification
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SS-Event-Specification}.
@xref{SS-Event-Specification}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item b-Subscriber-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item ccbs-Request-State
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{request}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUEST} @samp{0})
@item @b{recall}
(@samp{MAP_T_RECALL} @samp{1})
@item @b{active}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{completed}
(@samp{MAP_T_COMPLETED} @samp{3})
@item @b{suspended}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUSPENDED} @samp{4})
@item @b{frozen}
(@samp{MAP_T_FROZEN} @samp{5})
@item @b{deleted}
(@samp{MAP_T_DELETED} @samp{6})
@end table
@end vtable

@node SS-Invocation-Notification-Res
@subsubsection SS-Invocation-Notification-Res
@vindex SS-Invocation-Notification-Res

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{369}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab369,369,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Invocation-Notification-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

@node SS-List
@subsubsection SS-List
@vindex SS-List

An instance of OM class @b{SS-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{366}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab366,366,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ss-Code
One to thirty (@code{maxNumOfSS}) instances of SS-Code.
@code{SS-Code ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

@node SS-Subscription-Option
@subsubsection SS-Subscription-Option
@vindex SS-Subscription-Option

An instance of OM class @b{SS-Subscription-Option} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{358}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab358,358,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SS-Subscription-Option}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall exists in an
instance of this OM class.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cli-Restriction-Option
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{permanent}
(@samp{MAP_T_PERMANENT} @samp{0})
@item @b{temporary-default-restricted}
(@samp{MAP_T_TEMPORARY_DEFAULT_RESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{temporary-default-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_TEMPORARY_DEFAULT_ALLOWED} @samp{2})
@end table
@item override-Category
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{override-enabled}
(@samp{MAP_T_OVERRIDE_ENABLED} @samp{0})
@item @b{override-disabled}
(@samp{MAP_T_OVERRIDE_DISABLED} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node USSD-Arg
@subsubsection USSD-Arg
@vindex USSD-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{USSD-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{364}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab364,364,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{USSD-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ussd-Data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item ussd-String
@code{USSD-String ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..160))} The structure of the contents of the USSD-String
is dependent on the USSD-DataCodingScheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item alerting-Pattern
@code{AlertingPattern ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  This type is used to represent alerting
patterns: bits 8765, @samp{0000} (unused), bits 43, @samp{00}, level; @samp{01}, category;
@samp{10}, category; @samp{11}, reserved; bits 21, type of alerting.
@table @asis
@item @b{alterting-level-0}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_0} @code{'00000000'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_1} @code{'00000001'B})
@item @b{alterting-level-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_LEVEL_2} @code{'00000010'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_1} @code{'00000100'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_2} @code{'00000101'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_3} @code{'00000110'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_4} @code{'00000111'B})
@item @b{alterting-category-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALERTING_CATEGORY_5} @code{'00001000'B})
@end table
All other values are reserved.  Alerting levels and categories are defined in GSM 02.07.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node USSD-Res
@subsubsection USSD-Res
@vindex USSD-Res

An instance of OM class @b{USSD-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{365}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab365,365,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{UUSD-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item ussd-Data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Coding Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item ussd-String
@code{USSD-String ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..160))}  The structure of the contents of the USSD-String
is dependent on the USSD-DataCodingScheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

This service result is optional.

@node GSM Short Message Service Package
@subsection GSM Short Message Service Package

@menu
* Additional-Number::
* Alert-Service-Centre-Arg::
* Alert-Service-Centre-Res::
* Dispatcher-List::
* Inform-Service-Centre-Arg::
* Location-Info-With-LMSI::
* MO-Forward-SM-Arg::
* MO-Forward-SM-Res::
* MT-Forward-SM-Arg::
* MT-Forward-SM-Res::
* MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg::
* MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res::
* Ready-For-SM-Arg::
* Ready-For-SM-Res::
* Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg::
* Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res::
* Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg::
* Routing-Info-For-SM-Res::
* Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg::
* Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res::
* Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg::
* Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res::
* SM-RP-DA::
* SM-RP-OA::
@end menu

@itemize
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Alert-Service-Centre-Arg}
@item @b{Inform-Service-Centre-Arg}
@item @b{MO-Forward-SM-Arg}
@item @b{MT-Forward-SM-Arg}
@item @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg}
@item @b{Ready-For-SM-Arg}
@item @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Argument}
@item @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Argument}
@item @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Alert-Service-Centre-Res}
@item @b{MO-Forward-SM-Res}
@item @b{MT-Forward-SM-Res}
@item @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res}
@item @b{Ready-For-SM-Res}
@item @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res}
@item @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Result}
@item @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Result}
@item @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@ignore
sendRoutingInfoForSM ERRORS:
        systemFailure
        dataMissing
        unexpectedDataValue
        facilityNotSupported
        unknownSubscriber
        teleserviceNotProvisioned
        callBarred
        absentSubscriberSM
mo-ForwardSM ERRORS:
        systemFailure
        unexpectedDataValue
        facilityNotSupported
        sm-DeliveryFailure
mt-ForwardSM ERRORS:
        systemFailure
        dataMissing
        unexpectedDataValue
        facilityNotSupported
        unidentifiedSubscriber
        illegalSubscriber
        illegalEquipment
        subscriberBusyForMT-SMS
        sm-DeliveryFailure
        absentSubscriberSM
reportSM-DeliveryStatus ERRORS:
        dataMissing
        unexpectedDataValue
        unknownSubscriber
        messageWaitingListFull
alertServiceCenter ERRORS:
        systemFailure
        dataMissing
        unexpectedDataValue
informServiceCenter ERRORS:
readyForSM ERRORS:
        dataMissing
        unexpectedDataValue
        facilityNotSupported
        unknownSubscriber

---     dataMissing
---     facilityNotSupported
---     systemFailure
---     unexpectedDataValue

        absentSubscriberSM
        subscriberBusyForMT-SMS
        messageWaitingListFull
        sm-DeliveryFailure

        callBarred
        illegalEquipment
        illegalSubscriber
        teleserviceNotProvisioned
        unidentifiedSubscriber
        unknownSubscriber


@end ignore


@node Additional-Number
@subsubsection Additional-Number
@vindex Additional-Number

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{34}.  This class represents a choice and exactly one of the
attributes must be present in an instance of the object.

@tabfig{xmap_tab034,34,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Additional-Number}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msc-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an MSC.
An ISDN Address String containing the number of the MSC.
@item sgsn-Number
This attribute refers to the ISDN number of an SGSN.
An ISDN Address String containing the ISDN address of the SGSN.
@end vtable

@node Alert-Service-Centre-Arg
@subsubsection Alert-Service-Centre-Arg
@vindex Alert-Service-Centre-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Alert-Service-Centre-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.


An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{8}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab008,8,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Alert-Service-Centre-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute refers to the MSISDN stored in a Message Waiting Data File in the HLR.  It is used
to alert the Service Centre when the MS is again attainable.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}. @xref{String(Address)}.
@item service-Centre-Address
This attribute represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}. @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node Alert-Service-Centre-Res
@subsubsection Alert-Service-Centre-Res
@vindex Alert-Service-Centre-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Alert-Service-Centre-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}; it doest not provide any attributes of its own.

@node Dispatcher-List
@subsubsection Dispatcher-List
@vindex Dispatcher-List

An instance of OM class @b{Dispatcher-List} represents a list of one to five ISDN dispatch
addresses.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionaly
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{118}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab118,118,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Dispatcher-List}}

@vtable @var
@item dispatcher
One to five ISDN address strings.
@end vtable

@node Inform-Service-Centre-Arg
@subsubsection Inform-Service-Centre-Arg
@vindex Inform-Service-Centre-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Inform-Service-Centre-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{9}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab009,9,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Inform-Service-Centre-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
An MS-ISDN refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with ITU-T
Recommendation E.213.  This attribute refers to the MS-ISDN stored in a Message Waiting Data File in
the HLR.  It is used to alert the Service Centre when the MS is again attainable.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}. @xref{String(Address)}.
@item mw-Status
This attribute indicates whether or not the address of the originator service centre is already
contained in the Message Waiting Data file.  In addition, it contains the status of the Memory
Capacity Exceeded Flat (MCEF), the status of the Mobile Subscriber Not Reachable Flag (MNRF) and
the status of the Mobile station Not Reachable for GPRS flag (MNRG).

mw-Status is a bit string with 6 to 16 bits with the following bits defined:
@table @asis
@item @b{sc-Address-Not-Included}
(@samp{MAP_T_SC_ADDRESS_NOT_INCLUDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{mnrf-Set}
(@samp{MAP_T_MNRF_SET} @samp{1})
@item @b{mcef-Set}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCEF_SET} @samp{2})
@item @b{mnrg-Set}
(@samp{MAP_T_MNRG_SET} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@item absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
This optional attribute is used to indicate the reason why the subscribe is absent.  For the values
for this attribute, see 3GPP TS 23.040.
@item additional-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
This optional attribute indicates the reason of the additional SM Delivery Outcome.
@var{additional-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM} may be present only if
@var{absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM} is present.  If included,
@var{additional-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM} is for GPRS and
@var{absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM} is for non-GPRS.
@end vtable

@node Location-Info-With-LMSI
@subsubsection Location-Info-With-LMSI
@vindex Location-Info-With-LMSI

An instance of OM class @b{Location-Info-With-LMSI} contains information returned as a result in a
object of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Res}.@footnote{@xref{Routing-Info-For-SM-Res}.}  It
contains information as to where to route a relayed short message.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{33}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab033,33,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Location-Info-With-LMSI}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item network-Node-Number
This attribute provides a network node number coded as an octet string containing one to sixteen
TBCD encoded digits.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item gprs-Node-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item additional-Number
This optional attribute provides an additional network node number as an instance of OM class
@b{Additional-Number}. @xref{Additional-Number}.
@end vtable

@node MO-Forward-SM-Arg
@subsubsection MO-Forward-SM-Arg
@vindex MO-Forward-SM-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{MO-Forward-SM-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{10}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab010,10,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MO-Forward-SM-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-DA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-DA} object that represents the destinatoin address used by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-DA}.
@item sm-RP-OA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-OA} object that refers to the originating adress useed by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-OA}.
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute is the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@end vtable

@node MO-Forward-SM-Res
@subsubsection MO-Forward-SM-Res
@vindex MO-Forward-SM-Res

An instance of OM class @b{MO-Forward-SM-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{11}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab011,11,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MO-Forward-SM-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer
protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MT-Forward-SM-Arg
@subsubsection MT-Forward-SM-Arg
@vindex MT-Forward-SM-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{12}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab012,12,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-DA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-DA} object that represents the destinatoin address used by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-DA}.
@item sm-RP-OA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-OA} object that refers to the originating adress used by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-OA}.
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer
protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item more-Messages-To-Send
This attribute is used to indicate whether or not the service center has more short messages to
send.  Its presence indicates that there are more messages.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MT-Forward-SM-Res
@subsubsection MT-Forward-SM-Res
@vindex MT-Forward-SM-Res

An instance of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{13}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab013,13,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer
protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg
@subsubsection MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg
@vindex MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{116}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab116,116,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Arg}}

@vtable @var
@item asci-Call-Reference
A TBCD string of 1 to 8 octets representing the destination of the Short Message.  Digits of
VGCS/VBS-area and Group-ID are concatenated in this order if there is a VGCS/VBS-area.
@item sm-RP-OA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-OA} object that refers to the originating adress used by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-OA}.
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer
protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res
@subsubsection MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res
@vindex MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{117}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab117,117,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MT-Forward-SM-VGCS-Res}}

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer
protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item dispatcher-List
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Dispatcher-List}.
@xref{Dispatcher-List}.
@item ongoing-Call
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ready-For-SM-Arg
@subsubsection Ready-For-SM-Arg
@vindex Ready-For-SM-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Ready-For-SM-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{14}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab014,14,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Ready-For-SM-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item alert-Reason
This attribute is used to indicate the reason why the service center is alerted.  It can take one of
the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-Present}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_PRESENT} @samp{0})
@item @b{memory-Available}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEMORY_AVAILABLE}) @samp{1})
@end table
@item alert-Reason-Indicator
This attribute indicates that the alert reason is sent to the HLR due to GPRS activity.
@var{alert-Reason-Indicator} is only set when the @var{alert-Reason} sent to HLR is for GPRS.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Ready-For-SM-Res
@subsubsection Ready-For-SM-Res
@vindex Ready-For-SM-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Ready-For-SM-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{43}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab043,43,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Ready-For-SM-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg
@subsubsection Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg
@vindex Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{15}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab015,15,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item service-Centre-Address
This attribute represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item sm-Delivery-Outcome
This attribute indicates the cause for setting the message waiting data.
It can take one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{memory-capacity-exceeded}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{absent-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{successful-transfer}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUCCESSUL_TRANSFER} @samp{2})
@end table
@item absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
This attribute is used to indicate the reason why the subscribe is absent.
For the values for this attribute, see 3GPP TS 23.040.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@item gprs-Support-Indicator
This attribute indicates that the SMS-GMSC supports GPRS specific procedure of combine delivery of
Short Message via MSC and/or via the SGSN.
@item delivery-Outcome-Indicator
This attribute indicates that the delivery outcome sent to the HLR is for GPRS.
@item additional-SM-Delivery-Outcome
This attribute is used to indicate the GPRS deliver outcome in case a combination between deliver
outcome for GPRS and non-GPRS are sent to the HLR.
It can take one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{memory-capacity-exceeded}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{absent-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{successful-transfer}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUCCESSUL_TRANSFER} @samp{2})
@end table
@item additional-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
This attribute indicates the reason of the additional SM Delivery Outcome.
For the values for this attribute, see 3GPP TS 23.040.
@item ip-sm-gw-Indicator
The @b{ip-sm-gw-Indicator} indicates y its presence that sm-Delivery-Outcome is for delivery via
IMS.  When present, delivery-Outcome-Indicator shall be absent.
@item ip-sm-gw-sm-Delivery-Outcome
@table @asis
@item @b{memory-capacity-exceeded}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{absent-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{successful-transfer}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUCCESSUL_TRANSFER} @samp{2})
@end table
If present, ip-sm-gw-sm-Delivery-Outcome is for delivery via IMS.
Only present when ip-sm-gw-Indicator is present.
@item ip-sm-gw-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM is for delivery via IMS.
If present, ip-sm-gw-sm-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic
Only present when ip-sm-gw-Indicator is present.
@end vtable

@node Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res
@subsubsection Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res
@vindex Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{16}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab016,16,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
An MS-ISDN refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.  This attribute refers to the MS-ISDN stored in a Message Waiting Data
File in the HLR.  It is used to alert the Service Centre when the MS is again attainable.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg
@subsubsection Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg
@vindex Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{21}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab021,21,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item sm-RP-PRI
This attribute is used to indicate whether or not delivery of the short message shall be attempted
when a service centre address is already contained in the Message Waiting Data file.
@item service-Centre-Address
This attribute represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@item gprs-Support-Indicator
This attribute indicates that the SMS-GMSC supports GPRS specific procedure of combine delivery of
Short Message via MSC and/or via the SGSN.
@item sm-RP-MTI
This parameter represents the RP-Message Type Indicator of the Short Message.  It is used to
distinguish a SM sent to the moile station in order to acknowledge an MO-SM initiated by the mobile
from a normal MT-SM.  This parameter is formatted according to the formatting rules of address
fields as describedi n 3GPP TS 23.040.

This attribute is an Integer value between 0 and 10 inclusive and can assume the following defined
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sms-deliver}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVER})
@item @b{sms-status-report}
(@samp{MAP_T_STATUS_REPORT})
@end table
@item sm-RP-SMEA
This parameter represents the RP-Originating SME-address of the Short Message Entity that has
originated the SM.  This parameter is used by the short message service relay sub-layer protocol and
is formatted according to the formatting rules of address fields as described in 3GPP Ts 23.040.

This parameter contains an address field that is encoded as defined in 3GPP TS 23.040.  An address
field contains 3 elements:
@itemize
@item address-length
@item type-of-address
@item address-value
@end itemize
@item sm-Delivery-Not-Intended
@table @asis
@item @b{only-imsi-requested}
(@samp{MAP_T_ONLY_IMSI_REQUESTED} @samp{0})
@item @b{only-mcc-mnc-requested}
(@samp{MAP_T_ONLY_MCC_MNC_REQUESTED} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Routing-Info-For-SM-Res
@subsubsection Routing-Info-For-SM-Res
@vindex Routing-Info-For-SM-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{22}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab022,22,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-SM-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item location-Info-With-LMSI
This attribute is an object of OM class @b{Location-Info-With-LMSI}.  It provides location
information for delivery of short messages.  @xref{Location-Info-With-LMSI}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.
@xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute  is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.
@xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg
@vindex Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{17}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab017,17,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item service-Centre-Address
This parameter represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res
@subsubsection Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res
@vindex Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res} is the information supplied as an argument of a
Mobile Application Service response operation to be performed.  This object is passed to
@i{Service-rsp()} or returned from @i{Receive()}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{18}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab018,18,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mo-Sms-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg
@vindex Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{19}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab019,19,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-RP-DA
This attribute is a @b{SM-RP-DA} object that represents the destinatoin address used by the short
message service relay sub-layer protocol.  @xref{SM-RP-DA}.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@end vtable

@node Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res
@subsubsection Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res
@vindex Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{20}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab020,20,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Send-Info-For-Mt-Sms-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@end vtable

@node SM-RP-DA
@subsubsection SM-RP-DA
@vindex SM-RP-DA

An instance of OM class @b{SM-RP-DA} represents the destination address of a short message used by
the short message service relay sub-layer protocol.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{35}.  This OM class represents a choice and exactly one of the
attributes must appear in an instance of this class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab035,35,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SM-RP-DA}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item service-Centre-Address
This attribute represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item no-SM-RP-DA
This attributes specifies that there is no SM-RP-DA.
@end vtable

@node SM-RP-OA
@subsubsection SM-RP-OA
@vindex SM-RP-OA

An instance of OM class @b{SM-RP-OA} represents the originating address of an short message used by
the short message service relay sub-layer protocol.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{36}.  This OM class represents a choice and exactly one of the
attributes must appear in an instance of this class.

@tabfig{xmap_tab036,36,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SM-RP-OA}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item service-Centre-Address
This attribute represents the address of a Short Message Service Centre.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item no-SM-RP-OA
This attributes specifies that there is no SM-RP-OA.
@end vtable

@node GSM Group Call Package
@subsection GSM Group Call Package

@menu
* Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg::
* Prepare-Group-Call-Arg::
* Prepare-Group-Call-Res::
* Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg::
* Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg::
* Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res::
* Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg::
* Send-Group-Call-Info-Res::
* State-Attributes::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@item @b{Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg}
@item @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Arg}
@item @b{Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg}
@item @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg}
@itemize ---
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Res}
@item @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res}
@item @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg
@subsubsection Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg
@vindex Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{380}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab380,380,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Forward-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item uplink-Request-Ack
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Release-Indication
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Reject-Command
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Seized-Command
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Release-Command
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item state-Attributes
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{State-Attributes}.  @xref{State-Attributes}.
@item talker-Priority
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL} @samp{0})
@item @b{privileged}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY} @samp{2})
@end table
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@item emergency-Mode-Reset-Command-Flag
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item sm-RP-UI
This attribute is the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-layer protocol.
It is an octet string between one and two hundred octets in length.
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Prepare-Group-Call-Arg
@subsubsection Prepare-Group-Call-Arg
@vindex Prepare-Group-Call-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{376}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab376,376,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item teleservice
@code{Ext-TeleserviceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))} This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single teleservice, group of teleservices, or all teleservices.  The services are
defined in GSM TS 22.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 87654321,
group (bits 8765) and specific service (bits 4321); octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  If
received, Ext-TeleserviceCode shall be treated according to the exception handling defined for the
operation that uses this type.  Ext-TeleserviceCode includes all values defined for TeleserviceCode.
@item asci-Call-Reference
A TBCD string of 1 to 8 octets representing the destination of the Short Message.  Digits of
VGCS/VBS-area and Group-ID are concatenated in this order if there is a VGCS/VBS-area.
@item codec-Info
@code{Codec-Info ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(5..10))} Refers to channel type.  Coded according to 3GPP TS
48.008 and including Element identifier and Length.
@item ciphering-Algorithm
@code{CipheringAlgorithm ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Refers to permitted algorithms in encryption
information coded according to 3GPP TS 48.008:  Bits 87654321: 0000 0001, No encryption; 0000 0010,
GSM A5/1, 0000 0100, GSM A5/2, 0000 1000, GSM A5/3, 0001 0000, GSM A5/4, 0010 0000, GSM A5/5, 0100
0000, GSM A5/6, 1000 0000, GSM A5/7.
@item group-Key-Number-Vk-Id
@code{GroupKey-Number ::= INTEGER(0..15)}
@item group-Key
@code{Kc ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
@item priority
@code{EMLPP-Priority ::= INTEGER(0..15)}.  The mapping from the values, A, B, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 to the
integer value is specified as follows where A is the highest and 4 is the lowest priority level.
The integer values 7-15 are speare and shall be mapped to value 4.
@item uplink-Free
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item vstk
@code{VSTK :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))}
@item vstk-rand
@code{VSTK-RANE ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(5))}  The 36 bit value is carried in bit 7 of octet 1 ot bit
4 of octet 5.  Bits 3210 of octet 5 are padded with zeroes.
@item talker-Channel-Parameter
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node Prepare-Group-Call-Res
@subsubsection Prepare-Group-Call-Res
@vindex Prepare-Group-Call-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{377}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab377,377,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Prepare-Group-Call-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item group-Call-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg
@subsubsection Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg
@vindex Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{381}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab381,381,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Process-Group-Call-Signalling-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item uplink-Request
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Release-Indication
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item release-Group-Call
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item talker-Priority
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL} @samp{0})
@item @b{privileged}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY} @samp{2})
@end table
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@item emergency-Mode-Reset-Command-Flag
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item an-APDU
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@xref{Access-Network-Signal-Info}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg
@vindex Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{378}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab378,378,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item talker-Priority
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL} @samp{0})
@item @b{privileged}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY} @samp{2})
@end table
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@end vtable

@node Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res
@subsubsection Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res
@vindex Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{379}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab379,379,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Group-Call-End-Signal-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg
@subsubsection Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg
@vindex Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{383}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab383,383,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item requested-Info
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{anchor-msc-address-and-asci-call-reference}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANCHOR_MSC_ADDRESS_AND_ASCI_CALL_REFERENCE} @samp{0})
@item @b{imsi-and-additional-info-and-additional-subscription}
(@samp{MAP_T_IMSI_AND_ADDITIONAL_INFO_AND_ADDITIONAL_SUBSCRIPTION} @samp{1})
@end table
@item group-Id
@code{Long-GroupId ::= TBCD-STRING (SIZE (4))}  When Long-Group-Id is less than eight characters in
length, the TBCD filler (1111) is used to fill unused half-octets.  Refers to the Group
Identification as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 and 3GPP TS 43.068/43.069.
@item teleservice
@code{Ext-TeleserviceCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..5))} This type is used to represent the code
identifying a single teleservice, group of teleservices, or all teleservices.  The services are
defined in GSM TS 22.003.  The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1, bits 87654321,
group (bits 8765) and specific service (bits 4321); octets 2-5, reserved for future use.  If
received, Ext-TeleserviceCode shall be treated according to the exception handling defined for the
operation that uses this type.  Ext-TeleserviceCode includes all values defined for TeleserviceCode.
@item cell-Id
@code{GlobalCellId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(5..7))} Refers to Cell Global Identification defined in
3GPP TS 23.003.  The internal structures is as follows: octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st
digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digi; octet 2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit;
bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2 digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321,
mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, Location
Area Code according to 3GPP TS 24.008; octets 6 and 7, Call Identity (CI) according to 3GPP TS
24.008.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item tmsi
@code{TMSI ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..4))} This attribute is the Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  It is between one and four octets in length.
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@item talker-Priority
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL} @samp{0})
@item @b{privileged}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY} @samp{2})
@end table
@item cksn
@code{Cksn ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} The internal structure is defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Send-Group-Call-Info-Res
@subsubsection Send-Group-Call-Info-Res
@vindex Send-Group-Call-Info-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{384}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab384,384,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Send-Group-Call-Info-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item anchor-MSC-Address
An ISDN address string.
@item asci-Call-Reference
A TBCD string of 1 to 8 octets representing the destination of the Short Message.  Digits of
VGCS/VBS-area and Group-ID are concatenated in this order if there is a VGCS/VBS-area.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item additional-Info
@code{AdditionalInfo ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(1..136))} Refers to additional info as specified in 3GPP
TS 43.068.
@item additional-Subscriptions
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{privileged-up-link-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVILEGED_UP_LINK_REQUEST} @samp{0})
@item @b{emergency-up-link-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_UP_LINK_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{emergency-reset}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_RESET} @samp{2})
@end table
@item kc
@code{Kc ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node State-Attributes
@subsubsection State-Attributes
@vindex State-Attributes

An instance of OM class @b{State-Attributes} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{382}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab382,382,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{State-Attributes}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item downlink-Attached
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item uplink-Attached
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item dual-Communication
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item call-Originator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

Refer to 3GPP TS 44.068 for definitions of StateAttributes fields.

@node GSM Location Service Package
@subsection GSM Location Service Package

@menu
* Area::
* Area-Definition ::
* Area-Event-Info::
* Deferred-MT-LR-Data::
* LCS-Client-ID::
* LCS-Client-Name::
* LCS-Codeword::
* LCS-Location-Info::
* LCS-Privacy-Check::
* LCS-QoS::
* LCS-Requestor-ID::
* Location-Type::
* Periodic-LDR-Info::
* PLMN-List::
* Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg::
* Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res::
* Reporting-PLMN::
* Reporting-PLMN-List::
* Response-Time::
* Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg::
* Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res::
* Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg::
* Subscriber-Location-Report-Res::
@end menu

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg}
@item @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg}
@item @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res}
@item @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res}
@item @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Res}
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Area
@subsubsection Area
@vindex Area

An instance of OM class @b{Area} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{399}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab399,399,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Area}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item area-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{country-code}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNTRY_CODE} @samp{0})
@item @b{plmn-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_ID} @samp{1})
@item @b{location-area-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_AREA_ID} @samp{2})
@item @b{routing-area-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROUTING_AREA_ID} @samp{3})
@item @b{cell-global-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELL_GLOBAL_ID} @samp{4})
@item @b{utran-cell-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_UTRAN_CELL_ID} @samp{5})
@end table
@item area-Identification
@code{AreaIdentifiation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..7))} The internal structure is defined as follows:
octet 1, bits 4321, mobile country code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet
2, bits 4321, mobile country code 3rd digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit if 3 digit MNC
included or filler (1111); octet 3, bits 4321, mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile
network code 2nd digit; octets 4 and 5, location area code (LAC) for local area id, routing area id
and global id; octets 6, routing area code (RAC) for routing area id; octets 6 and 7, call identity
(CI) for cell global id; octets 4 through 7, utran cell identity (UC-Id) for utran cell id.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Area-Definition 
@subsubsection Area-Definition 
@vindex Area-Definition 

An instance of OM class @b{Area-Definition} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{398}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab398,398,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Area-Definition}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item area-List
One to ten (@code{maxNumOfAreas}) instances of OM class
@b{Area}.
@xref{Area}.
@end vtable

@node Area-Event-Info
@subsubsection Area-Event-Info
@vindex Area-Event-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Area-Event-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{397}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab397,397,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Area-Event-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item area-Definition
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Area-Definition}.  @xref{Area-Definition}.
@item occurence-Info
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{one-time-event}
(@samp{MAP_T_ONE_TIME_EVENT} @samp{0})
@item @b{multiple-time-event}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_TIME_EVENT} @samp{1})
@end table
@item interval-Time
@code{IntervalTime ::= INTEGER(1..32767)} Minimum interval time between area reports in seconds.
@end vtable

@node Deferred-MT-LR-Data
@subsubsection Deferred-MT-LR-Data
@vindex Deferred-MT-LR-Data

An instance of OM class @b{Deferred-MT-LR-Data} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{406}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab406,406,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Deferred-MT-LR-Data}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item deferred-Location-Event-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_AVAILABLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{entering-into-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENTERING_INTO_AREA} @samp{1})
@item @b{leaving-from-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEAVING_FROM_AREA} @samp{2})
@item @b{being-inside-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_BEING_INSIDE_AREA} @samp{3})
@item @b{periodic-ldr}
(@samp{MAP_T_PERIODIC_LDR} @samp{4})
@end table
@item termination-Cause
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{normal}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORMAL} @samp{0})
@item @b{error-undefined}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERROR_UNDEFINED} @samp{1})
@item @b{internal-timeout}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNAL_TIMEOUT} @samp{2})
@item @b{congestion}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONGESTION} @samp{3})
@item @b{mt-lr-restart}
(@samp{MAP_T_MT_LR_RESTART} @samp{4})
@item @b{privacy-violation}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVACY_VIOLATION} @samp{5})
@item @b{shape-of-location-estimate-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHAPE_OF_LOCATION_ESTIMATE_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{6})
@item @b{subscriber-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUBSCRIBER_TERMINATION} @samp{7})
@item @b{ue-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_UE_TERMINATION} @samp{8})
@item @b{network-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_TERMINATION} @samp{9})
@end table
@item lcs-Location-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Location-Info}.  @xref{LCS-Location-Info}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Client-ID
@subsubsection LCS-Client-ID
@vindex LCS-Client-ID

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-ID} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{390}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab390,390,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Client-ID}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lcs-Client-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{emergency-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_SERVICES} @samp{0})
@item @b{value-added-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALUE_ADDED_SERVICES} @samp{1})
@item @b{plmn-operator-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_OPERATOR_SERVICES} @samp{2})
@item @b{lawful-intercept-services}
(@samp{MAP_T_LAWFUL_INTERCEPT_SERVICES} @samp{3})
@end table
@item lcs-Client-External-ID
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-External-ID}.
@xref{LCS-Client-External-ID}.
@item lcs-Client-Dialed-By-MS
An address string.
@item lcs-Client-Internal-ID
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{broadcast-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_BROADCAST_SERVICE} @samp{0})
@item @b{o-and-m-hplmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_AND_M_HPLMN} @samp{1})
@item @b{o-and-m-vplmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_O_AND_M_VPLMN} @samp{2})
@item @b{anonymous-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANONYMOUS_LOCATION} @samp{3})
@item @b{target-ms-subscribed-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_TARGET_MS_SUBSCRIBED_SERVICE} @samp{4})
@end table
@item lcs-Client-Name
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-Name}.  @xref{LCS-Client-Name}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item lcs-APN
@code{APN ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..63))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item lcs-Requestor-ID
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Requestor-ID}.  @xref{LCS-Requestor-ID}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Client-Name
@subsubsection LCS-Client-Name
@vindex LCS-Client-Name

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-Name} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{391}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab391,391,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Client-Name}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
The USSD-DataCodingScheme shall indicate use of the default alphabet through the encoding
@code{'00001111'}.
@item name-String
@code{NameString ::= USSD-String (SIZE(1..63))}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item lcs-Format-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{logical-name}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOGICAL_NAME} @samp{0})
@item @b{e-mail-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_MAIL_ADDRESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{msisdn}
(@samp{MAP_T_MSISDN} @samp{2})
@item @b{url}
(@samp{MAP_T_URL} @samp{3})
@item @b{sip-url}
(@samp{MAP_T_SIP_URL} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node LCS-Codeword
@subsubsection LCS-Codeword
@vindex LCS-Codeword

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Codeword} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{395}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab395,395,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Codeword}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item lcs-Codeword-String
@code{LCSCodewordString ::= USSD-String (SIZE(1..20))}
@end vtable

@node LCS-Location-Info
@subsubsection LCS-Location-Info
@vindex LCS-Location-Info

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Location-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{387}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab387,387,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Location-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item network-Node-Number
An ISDN address string.  Network node number can either be msc-Number or sgsn-Number.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item gprs-Node-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item additional-Number
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Additional-Number}.  @xref{Additional-Number}.
@item supported-LCS-Capability-Sets
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_4} @samp{3})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_5} @samp{4})
@end table
Set 1 indicates LCS Release 98 or 99 version; set 2, LCS Release 4; set 3, LCS Release 5; set 4, LCS
Release 6; set 5, LCS Release 7 or later version.  A node shall mark in the bit string all LCS
capability sets it supports.  If no bit is set then the sending node does not support LCS.  If the
parameter is not sent by a VLR then the VLR may support at most capability set 1.  If the parameter
is not sent by a SGSN, then no support for LCS is assumed.  An SGSN is not allowed to indicate
support of capability set 1.  Other bits than listed above shall be discarded.
@item additional-LCS-Capability-Sets
A bit string containing zero or more of the following bits:
@table @asis
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-1}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_1} @samp{0})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-2}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_2} @samp{1})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-3}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_3} @samp{2})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-4}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_4} @samp{3})
@item @b{lcs-capability-set-5}
(@samp{MAP_T_LCS_CAPABILITY_SET_5} @samp{4})
@end table
Set 1 indicates LCS Release 98 or 99 version; set 2, LCS Release 4; set 3, LCS Release 5; set 4, LCS
Release 6; set 5, LCS Release 7 or later version.  A node shall mark in the bit string all LCS
capability sets it supports.  If no bit is set then the sending node does not support LCS.  If the
parameter is not sent by a VLR then the VLR may support at most capability set 1.  If the parameter
is not sent by a SGSN, then no support for LCS is assumed.  An SGSN is not allowed to indicate
support of capability set 1.  Other bits than listed above shall be discarded.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Privacy-Check
@subsubsection LCS-Privacy-Check
@vindex LCS-Privacy-Check

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Private-Check} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{396}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab396,396,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Private-Check}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Session-Unrelated
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{allowed-without-notification}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{allowed-with-notification}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_WITH_NOTIFICATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{allowed-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{restricted-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESTRICTED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{3})
@item @b{not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{4})
@end table
@item call-Session-Related
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{allowed-without-notification}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{allowed-with-notification}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_WITH_NOTIFICATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{allowed-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{restricted-if-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESTRICTED_IF_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{3})
@item @b{not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{4})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node LCS-QoS
@subsubsection LCS-QoS
@vindex LCS-QoS

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-QoS} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{393}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab393,393,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-QoS}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item horizontal-Accuracy
@code{Horizontal-Accuracy ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Bit 8 is zero, bits 7654321, 7-bit uncertainty
code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032.  The vertical location error should be less than the error indicated
by the uncertainty code with 67% confidence.
@item vertical-Coordinate-Request
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item vertical-accuracy
@code{Vertical-Accuracy ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Bit 8 is zero, bits 7654321, 7-bit vertical
uncertainty code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032.  The vertical location error should be less than the
error indicated by the uncertainty code with 67% confidence.
@item response-Time
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Response-Time}.  @xref{Response-Time}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item velocity-Request
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

@node LCS-Requestor-ID
@subsubsection LCS-Requestor-ID
@vindex LCS-Requestor-ID

An instance of OM class @b{LCS-Requestor-ID} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{392}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab392,392,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{LCS-Requestor-ID}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item data-Coding-Scheme
@code{USSD-DataCodingScheme ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))} The structure of the USSD-DataCodingScheme
is defined by the Cell Broadcast Data Scheme as described in 3GPP TS 23.038.
@item requestor-ID-String
@code{RequestorIDString ::= USSD-String (SIZE(1..63))}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item lcs-Format-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{logical-name}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOGICAL_NAME} @samp{0})
@item @b{e-mail-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_E_MAIL_ADDRESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{msisdn}
(@samp{MAP_T_MSISDN} @samp{2})
@item @b{url}
(@samp{MAP_T_URL} @samp{3})
@item @b{sip-url}
(@samp{MAP_T_SIP_URL} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Location-Type
@subsubsection Location-Type
@vindex Location-Type

An instance of OM class @b{Location-Type} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{389}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab389,389,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Type}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Estimate-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{current-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_CURRENT_LOCATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{current-or-last-known-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_CURRENT_OR_LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{initial-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_INITIAL_LOCATION} @samp{2})
@item @b{activate-deferred-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_ACTIVATE_DEFERRED_LOCATION} @samp{3})
@item @b{cancel-deferred-location}
(@samp{MAP_T_CANCEL_DEFERRED_LOCATION} @samp{4})
@item @b{notification-verification-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFICATION_VERIFICATION_ONLY} @samp{5})
@end table
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item deferred-Location-Event-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_AVAILABLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{entering-into-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENTERING_INTO_AREA} @samp{1})
@item @b{leaving-from-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEAVING_FROM_AREA} @samp{2})
@item @b{being-inside-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_BEING_INSIDE_AREA} @samp{3})
@item @b{periodic-ldr}
(@samp{MAP_T_PERIODIC_LDR} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Periodic-LDR-Info
@subsubsection Periodic-LDR-Info
@vindex Periodic-LDR-Info

An instance of OM class @b{Periodic-LDR-Info} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{400}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab400,400,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Periodic-LDR-Info}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item reporting-Amount
@code{ReportingAmount ::= INTEGER(1..8639999)}
@item reporting-Interval
@code{ReportingInterval ::= INTEGER(1..8639999)}
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PLMN-List
@subsubsection PLMN-List
@vindex PLMN-List

An instance of OM class @b{PLMN-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{402}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab402,402,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PLMN-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item reporting-PLMN
One to twentry (@code{maxNumOfReportingPLMN}) instances of OM class
@b{Reporting-PLMN}.
@xref{Reporting-PLMN}.
@end vtable

@node Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg
@subsubsection Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg
@vindex Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{388}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab388,388,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Type
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Location-Type}.  @xref{Location-Type}.
@item mlc-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item lcs-Client-ID
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-ID}.  @xref{LCS-Client-ID}.
@item privacy-Override
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item lmsi
This attribute provides the local identity allocated by the VLR to a given subscriber for internal
management of data in the VLR.  The LMSI shall not be sent to an SGSN.  This attribute is encoded as
a 4 octet string.
@item imei
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  The last octet shall contain digit 0 and a filler.
@item lcs-Priority
@code{LCS-Priority ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))} Values: 0, highest priority; 1, normal priority; all
other values treated as 1.
@item lcs-QoS
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-QoS}.  @xref{LCS-QoS}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item supported-GAD-Shapes
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ellipsoid-point}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLIPSOID_POINT} @samp{0})
@item @b{ellipsoid-point-with-uncertainty-circle}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLIPSOID_POINT_WITH_UNCERTAINTY_CIRCLE} @samp{1})
@item @b{ellipsoid-point-with-uncertainty-ellipse}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLISPOID_POINT_WITH_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{polygon}
(@samp{MAP_T_POLYGON} @samp{3})
@item @b{ellipsoid-point-with-altitude}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLIPSOID_POINT_WITH_ALTITUDE} @samp{4})
@item @b{ellipsoid-point-with-altitude-and-uncertainty-ellipsoid}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLIPSOID_POINT_WITH_ALTITUDE_AND_UNCERTAINTY_ELLIPSOID} @samp{5})
@item @b{ellipsoid-arc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ELLISPOID_ARC} @samp{6})
@end table
@item lcs-Reference-Number
@code{LCS-ReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))}
@item lcs-Service-Type-ID
@code{LCSServiceTypeID ::= INTEGER (0..127)}  The integer values 0-63 are reserved for standard LCS
service types; the integer values 64-127 are reserved for non-standard LCS service types.
@item lcs-Codeword
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Codeword}.  @xref{LCS-Codeword}.
@item lcs-Privacy-Check
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Privacy-Check}.  @xref{LCS-Privacy-Check}.
@item area-Event-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Area-Event-Info}.  @xref{Area-Event-Info}.
@item h-gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item mo-lr-Short-Circuit-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item periodic-LDR-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Periodic-LDR-Info}.  @xref{Periodic-LDR-Info}.
@item reporting-PLMN-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Reporting-PLMN-List}.
@xref{Reporting-PLMN-List}.
@end vtable

One of imsi or msisdn is mandatory.  If a location estimate type indicates acitvate deferred
location or cancel deferred location, a lcs-Reference number shall be included.

@node Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res
@subsubsection Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res
@vindex Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{404}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab404,404,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Provide-Subscriber-Location-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item location-Estimate
@code{Ext-GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..20))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item age-Of-Location-Estimate
@code{AgeOfLocationInformation ::= INTEGER (0..32767)}  The value represents the elapsed time in
minutes since the last network contact of the mobile station (i.e. the actuality of the location
information).  A value of @samp{0} indicates that the MS is currently in contact with the network.
A value of @samp{32767} indicates that the location information is at least @samp{32767} minutes
old.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item add-Location-Estimate
@code{Add-GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..91))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item defered-mt-lr-Response-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item geran-Positioning-Data
@code{PositioningDataInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..10))}  Refers to the positioning data
defined in 3GPP TS 49.031.  This is composed of 2 or more octets with an internal structure according
to 3GPP TS 49.031.
@item utran-Positioning-Data
@code{UtranPositioningDataInfo :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..11))} Referes to the position data defined
in 3GPP TS 25.413.  This is componsed of the positioningDataDiscriminator and the positiningDataSet
included in positionData as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413.
@item cell-Id-Or-Sai
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@xref{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@item sai-Present
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{requested-accuracy-fulfilled}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_FULFILLED} @samp{0})
@item @b{requested-accuracy-not-fulfilled}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_NOT_FULFILLED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item velocity-Estimate
@code{VelocityEstimate ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..7))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item mo-lr-Short-Circuit-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

If deferred-mt-lr-Response indicator is set, location-Estimate is ignored.

The add-Location-Estimate parameter shall not be sent to a node that did not indicate the geographic
shapes supported in the Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg.

The location-Estimate and the add-Location-Estimate parameters shall not be sent if the
supported-GAD-Shapes parameter has been received in Provide-Subscriber-Location-Arg and the shape
encoded in the location-Estimate or add-Location-Estimate is not marked as supported in the
supported-GAD-Shapes.  In such a case Provide-Subscriber-Location shall be rejected with error
Facility-Not-Supported with additional indication shape-Of-Location-Estimate-Not-Supported.

sai-Present indicates that the cell-Id-Or-Sai parameter contains a Service Area Identity.

@node Reporting-PLMN
@subsubsection Reporting-PLMN
@vindex Reporting-PLMN

An instance of OM class @b{Reporting-PLMN} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{403}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab403,403,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Reporting-PLMN}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item plmn-Id
@code{PLMN-Id ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3))} The internal structure is defined as follows: octet 1,
bits 4321, mobile country code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile country code 2nd digit; octet 2, bits
4321, mobile country code 3rd digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 3rd digit or filler (1111) for 2
digit MNCs; octet 3, bits 4321, mobile network code 1st digit; bits 8765, mobile network code 2nd
digit.
@item ran-Technology
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{gsm}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSM} @samp{0})
@item @b{umts}
(@samp{MAP_T_UMTS} @samp{1})
@end table
@item ran-Periodic-Location-Support
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Reporting-PLMN-List
@subsubsection Reporting-PLMN-List
@vindex Reporting-PLMN-List

An instance of OM class @b{Reporting-PLMN-List} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{401}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab401,401,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Reporting-PLMN-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item plmn-List-Prioritized
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item plmn-List
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{PLMN-List}.  @xref{PLMN-List}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Response-Time
@subsubsection Response-Time
@vindex Response-Time

An instance of OM class @b{Response-Time} represents the corresponding GSM MAP information object.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{394}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab394,394,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Response-Time}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item response-Time-Category
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{low-delay}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOW_DELAY} @samp{0})
@item @b{delay-tolerant}
(@samp{MAP_T_DELAY_TOLERANT} @samp{1})
@end table
An unrecognized value will be treated the same as @b{delay-tolerant}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg
@subsubsection Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg
@vindex Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{385}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab385,385,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mlc-Number
An ISDN address string.
@item target-MS
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity}.  @xref{Subscriber-Identity}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res
@subsubsection Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res
@vindex Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res} represents the information of a mobile
application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{386}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab386,386,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Routing-Info-For-LCS-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item target-MS
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Identity}.  @xref{Subscriber-Identity}.
@item lcs-Location-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Location-Info}.  @xref{LCS-Location-Info}.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item v-Gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item h-Gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item ppr-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item additional-v-Gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@end vtable

@node Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg
@vindex Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation request supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or
is returned by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service
operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{GSM-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{405}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab405,405,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item lcs-Event
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{emergency-call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{emergency-call-release}
(@samp{MAP_T_EMERGENCY_CALL_RELEASE} @samp{1})
@item @b{mo-lr}
(@samp{MAP_T_MO_LR} @samp{2})
@item @b{deferred-mt-lr-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEFERRED_MT_LR_RESPONSE} @samp{3})
@item @b{deferred-mo-lr-tttp-initiation}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEFERRED_MO_LR_TTTP_INITIATION} @samp{4})
@end table
@item lcs-Client-ID
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Client-ID}.  @xref{LCS-Client-ID}.
@item lcs-Location-Info
This attribute is an instance of OM class @b{LCS-Location-Info}.  @xref{LCS-Location-Info}.
@item msisdn
This attribute refers to one of the ISDN numbers assigned to a mobile subscriber in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation E.213.
This attribute has syntax @i{String(Address)}.  @xref{String(Address)}.
@item imsi
This attribute represents the International Mobile Subscriber Identity defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.
The syntax of this attribute is an octet string containing a TBCD string (@pxref{String(TBCD)})
between 3 and 8 octets (5 and 16 digits) in length, inclusive.  Digits of MCC, MNC and MSIN are
concatenated in the listed order.
@item imei
@code{IMEI ::= TBCD-STRING(SIZE(8))} Refers to International Mobile Station Equipment Identity
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003.  The last octet shall contain digit 0 and a filler.
@item na-ESRD
An ISDN address string.
@item na-ESRK
An ISDN address string.
@item location-Estimate
@code{Ext-GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..20))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item age-Of-Location-Estimate
@code{AgeOfLocationInformation ::= INTEGER (0..32767)}  The value represents the elapsed time in
minutes since the last network contact of the mobile station (i.e. the actuality of the location
information).  A value of @samp{0} indicates that the MS is currently in contact with the network.
A value of @samp{32767} indicates that the location information is at least @samp{32767} minutes
old.
@item slr-Arg-Extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container}.
@xref{SLR-Arg-Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item add-Location-Estimate
@code{Add-GeographicalInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..91))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item deferred-mt-lr-Data
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Deferred-MT-LR-Data}.
@xref{Deferred-MT-LR-Data}.
@item lcs-Reference-Number
@code{LCS-ReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))}
@item geran-Positioning-Data
@code{PositioningDataInformation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..10))}  Refers to the positioning data
defined in 3GPP TS 49.031.  This is composed of 2 or more octets with an internal structure according
to 3GPP TS 49.031.
@item utran-Positioning-Data
@code{UtranPositioningDataInfo :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE(3..11))} Referes to the position data defined
in 3GPP TS 25.413.  This is componsed of the positioningDataDiscriminator and the positiningDataSet
included in positionData as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413.
@item cell-Id-Or-Sai
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@xref{Cell-Global-Id-Or-Service-Area-Id-Or-LAI}.
@item h-gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item lcs-Service-Type-ID
@code{LCSServiceTypeID ::= INTEGER (0..127)}  The integer values 0-63 are reserved for standard LCS
service types; the integer values 64-127 are reserved for non-standard LCS service types.
@item sai-Present
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item pseudonum-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{requested-accuracy-fulfilled}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_FULFILLED} @samp{0})
@item @b{requested-accuracy-not-fulfilled}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_NOT_FULFILLED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item velocity-Estimate
@code{VelocityEstimate ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..7))} See 3GPP TS 29.002 for coding.
@item sequence-Number
@code{SequenceNumber ::= INTEGER(1..8639999)}
@item periodic-LDR-Info
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Periodic-LDR-Info}.  @xref{Periodic-LDR-Info}.
@item mo-lr-Short-Circuit-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@end vtable

One of @var{imsi} or @var{msisdn} is mandatory.

@node Subscriber-Location-Report-Res
@subsubsection Subscriber-Location-Report-Res
@vindex Subscriber-Location-Report-Res

An instance of OM class @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Res} represents the information of a mobile application service
operation response supplied as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function
(@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{GSM-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{407}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab407,407,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Subscriber-Location-Report-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item na-ESRK
An ISDN address string.
@item na-ESRD
An ISDN address string.
@item h-gmlc-Address
@code{GSN-Address ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(5..17))} Octets are coded according to 3GPP TS 23.003.
@item mo-lr-Short-Circuit-Indicator
A Null value whose presence provides indication.
@item reporting-PLMN-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Reporting-PLMN-List}.
@xref{Reporting-PLMN-List}.
@item lcs-Reference-Number
@code{LCS-ReferenceNumber ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))}
@end vtable

Note that @var{na-ESRK} and @var{na-ESRD} are mutually exclusive.  Receipt of both na-ESRK and
na-ESRD shall be treated the same as a return error.

@node ANSI MAP Package
@section ANSI MAP Package

@menu
* ANSI-Abort-Argument::
* ANSI-Abort-Result::
* ANSI-Accept-Result
* ANSI-Close-Argument::
* ANSI-Context::
* ANSI-Map-Assoc-Args::
* ANSI-Notice-Result::
* ANSI-Open-Argument::
* ANSI-P-Abort-Result
* ANSI-Refuse-Result
* ANSI-Release-Argument::
* ANSI-Release-Result::
* ANSI-Service-Argument::
* ANSI-Service-Error::
* ANSI-Service-Reject::
* ANSI-Service-Result::
@end menu

(Currently the ANSI MAP package has not yet been fully defined.)

@node ANSI-Abort-Argument
@subsection ANSI-Abort-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{ANSI-Abort-Argument} represents the information that can be supplied as
the @i{Arugment} argument to the @i{Abort()} function (@pxref{Abort}) or is retruned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a provider abort
indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Abort-Argument}
(@pxref{Abort-Argument}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in xxx.

@node ANSI-Abort-Result
@subsection ANSI-Abort-Result

@node ANSI-Accept-Result
@subsection ANSI-Accept-Result

An instance of OM class @b{ANSI-Accept-Result} represents the information that is supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Accept()} function (@pxref{Accept}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for an accept
confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Accept-Result}
(@pxref{Accept-Result}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in xxx.

@node ANSI-Close-Argument
@subsection ANSI-Close-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{ANSI-Close-Argument} represents the information that is supplied as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Close()} function (@pxref{Close}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a close
indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclass, @i{Close-Argument}
(@pxref{Close-Argument}), and additionally the OM attributes listed in xxx.

@node ANSI-Context
@subsection ANSI-Context

@node ANSI-Map-Assoc-Args
@subsection ANSI-Map-Assoc-Args

@node ANSI-Notice-Result
@subsection ANSI-Notice-Result

@node ANSI-Open-Argument
@subsection ANSI-Open-Argument

@node ANSI-P-Abort-Result
@subsection ANSI-P-Abort-Result

@node ANSI-Refuse-Result
@subsection ANSI-Refuse-Result

@node ANSI-Release-Argument
@subsection ANSI-Release-Argument

@node ANSI-Release-Result
@subsection ANSI-Release-Result

@node ANSI-Service-Argument
@subsection ANSI-Service-Argument

@node ANSI-Service-Error
@subsection ANSI-Service-Error

@node ANSI-Service-Reject
@subsection ANSI-Service-Reject

@node ANSI-Service-Result
@subsection ANSI-Service-Result

@node ANSI MAP Services Packages
@section ANSI MAP Services Packages

@menu
@end menu

@node ANSI MAP Services Package
@subsection ANSI MAP Services Package

@subsubheading OM Hierarchy

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object}
@itemize ---
@item @i{Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Argument}
@itemize ---
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item @i{Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@item @i{GSM-Service-Result}
@itemize ---
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Authentication-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Directive-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{459}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab459,459,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item authentication-Algorithm-Version
@code{AuthenticationAlgorithmVersion ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in
ANSI 41-D 6.5.2.7.
@item authentication-Response-Unique-Challenge
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item deny-Access
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{ssd-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{2})
@item @b{count-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{6})
@item @b{process-collision}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROCESS_COLLISION} @samp{7})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{8})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{9})
@item @b{min-or-esn-authorization-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_OR_ESN_AUTHORIZATION_FAILURE} @samp{10})
@end table
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item random-Variable-SSD
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for generating shared secret data (SSD-A and SSD-B).  The random number is chosen independently by
the AC during the process to update the mobile station's SSD.
@code{RandomVariableSSD ::= [PRIVATE 42] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.103.
@item random-Variable-Unique-Challenge
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for authenticating a specific mobile station.  The random number is chosen independently by the AC
or VLR whenever a unique challenge is prescribed by local AC or VLR authentication procedures.
@code{RandomVariableUniqueChallenge ::= [PRIVATE 43] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.104.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item shared-Secret-Data
@code{SharedSecretData ::= [PRIVATE 46] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (16))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.119.
@item ssd-Not-Shared
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{discard-ssd}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCARD_SSD} @samp{1})
@end table
@item update-Count
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-count}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_COUNT} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Directive-Res
@vindex Authentication-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{460}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab460,460,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Directive-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Directive-Forward-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Directive-Forward-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Directive-Forward-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Directive-Forward-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{461}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab461,461,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Directive-Forward-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item authentication-Response-Unique-Challenge
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item random-Variable-Unique-Challenge
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for authenticating a specific mobile station.  The random number is chosen independently by the AC
or VLR whenever a unique challenge is prescribed by local AC or VLR authentication procedures.
@code{RandomVariableUniqueChallenge ::= [PRIVATE 43] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.104.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Directive-Forward-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Directive-Forward-Res
@vindex Authentication-Directive-Forward-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Directive-Forward-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{462}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab462,462,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Directive-Forward-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item unique-Challenge-Report
@code{UniqueChallengeReport ::= [PRIVATE 124] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.162.  The octet can assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unique-challenge-not-attempted}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NOT_ATTEMPTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{unique-challenge-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{unique-challenge-successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILED} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{463}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab463,463,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item report-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified-security-violation}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED_SECURITY_VIOLATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{min-esn-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_ESN_MISMATCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{randc-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_RANDC_MISMATCH} @samp{3})
@item @b{ssd-update-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILED} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{7})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILED} @samp{9})
@item @b{unsolicited-base-station-challenge}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSOLICITED_BASE_STATION_CHALLENGE} @samp{10})
@item @b{ssd-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{11})
@item @b{count-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{12})
@item @b{unique-challenge-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{13})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{14})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{15})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{16})
@end table
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item system-Capabilities
(Serving)
@code{SystemCapabilities ::= [PRIVATE 49] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.146.

@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item call-History-Count-Expected
@code{CallHistoryCountExpected ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item mscid
(Serving MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item report-Type
XXX
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified-security-violation}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED_SECURITY_VIOLATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{min-esn-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_ESN_MISMATCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{randc-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_RANDC_MISMATCH} @samp{3})
@item @b{ssd-update-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILED} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{7})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILED} @samp{9})
@item @b{unsolicited-base-station-challenge}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSOLICITED_BASE_STATION_CHALLENGE} @samp{10})
@item @b{ssd-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{11})
@item @b{count-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{12})
@item @b{unique-challenge-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{13})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{14})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{15})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{16})
@end table
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Failure-Report-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Failure-Report-Res
@vindex Authentication-Failure-Report-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{464}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab464,464,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Failure-Report-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Algorithm-Version
@code{AuthenticationAlgorithmVersion ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in
ANSI 41-D 6.5.2.7.
@item authentication-Response-Unique-Challenge
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item deny-Access
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{ssd-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{2})
@item @b{count-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{6})
@item @b{process-collision}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROCESS_COLLISION} @samp{7})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{8})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{9})
@item @b{min-or-esn-authorization-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_OR_ESN_AUTHORIZATION_FAILURE} @samp{10})
@end table
@item random-Variable-SSD
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for generating shared secret data (SSD-A and SSD-B).  The random number is chosen independently by
the AC during the process to update the mobile station's SSD.
@code{RandomVariableSSD ::= [PRIVATE 42] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.103.
@item random-Variable-Unique-Challenge
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for authenticating a specific mobile station.  The random number is chosen independently by the AC
or VLR whenever a unique challenge is prescribed by local AC or VLR authentication procedures.
@code{RandomVariableUniqueChallenge ::= [PRIVATE 43] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.104.
@item shared-Secret-Data
@code{SharedSecretData ::= [PRIVATE 46] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (16))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.119.
@item terminal-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-distinguished}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_DISTINGUISHED} @samp{1})
@item @b{is-54-b}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_54_B} @samp{2})
@item @b{is-136}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_136} @samp{3})
@item @b{is-95}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95} @samp{32})
@item @b{is-95-a}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95_A} @samp{33})
@item @b{is-88}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_88} @samp{64})
@item @b{is-94}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_94} @samp{65})
@item @b{is-91}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_91} @samp{66})
@end table
@item update-Count
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-count}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_COUNT} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Request-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{465}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab465,465,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Serving MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item system-Capabilities
(Serving)
@code{SystemCapabilities ::= [PRIVATE 49] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.146.

@item authentication-Data
@code{AuthenticationData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.9.
@item authentication-Response
@code{AuthenticationResponse ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.10.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item pc-SSN
(Serving MSC or VLR or HLR)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item random-Variable
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE algorithm for mobile station
authentication, signaling message encryption and digital channel voice privacy.  The random number
is chosen by the serving MSC.
@code{RandomVariable ::= [PRIVATE 40] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.101.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item terminal-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-distinguished}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_DISTINGUISHED} @samp{1})
@item @b{is-54-b}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_54_B} @samp{2})
@item @b{is-136}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_136} @samp{3})
@item @b{is-95}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95} @samp{32})
@item @b{is-95-a}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95_A} @samp{33})
@item @b{is-88}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_88} @samp{64})
@item @b{is-94}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_94} @samp{65})
@item @b{is-91}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_91} @samp{66})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Request-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Request-Res
@vindex Authentication-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{466}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab466,466,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Algorithm-Version
@code{AuthenticationAlgorithmVersion ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in
ANSI 41-D 6.5.2.7.
@item authentication-Response-Unique-Challenge
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item cdma-Private-Long-Code-Mask
@code{CdmaPrivateLongCodeMask ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.36.
@item deny-Access
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{ssd-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{2})
@item @b{count-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{6})
@item @b{process-collision}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROCESS_COLLISION} @samp{7})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{8})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{9})
@item @b{min-or-esn-authorization-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_OR_ESN_AUTHORIZATION_FAILURE} @samp{10})
@end table
@item random-Variable-SSD
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for generating shared secret data (SSD-A and SSD-B).  The random number is chosen independently by
the AC during the process to update the mobile station's SSD.
@code{RandomVariableSSD ::= [PRIVATE 42] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.103.
@item random-Variable-Unique-Challenge
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for authenticating a specific mobile station.  The random number is chosen independently by the AC
or VLR whenever a unique challenge is prescribed by local AC or VLR authentication procedures.
@code{RandomVariableUniqueChallenge ::= [PRIVATE 43] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.104.
@item shared-Secret-Data
@code{SharedSecretData ::= [PRIVATE 46] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (16))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.119.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item ssd-Not-Shared
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{discard-ssd}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCARD_SSD} @samp{1})
@end table
@item update-Count
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-count}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_COUNT} @samp{1})
@end table
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Status-Report-Arg
@subsubsection Authentication-Status-Report-Arg
@vindex Authentication-Status-Report-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Status-Report-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{467}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab467,467,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Status-Report-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item system-Capabilities
(Serving)
@code{SystemCapabilities ::= [PRIVATE 49] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.146.

@item count-Update-Report
@code{CountUpdateReport ::= [PRIVATE 138] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.52.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item ssd-Update-Report
@code{SSDUpdateReport ::= [PRIVATE 156] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.142.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ssd-update-not-attempted}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_NOT_ATTEMPTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{ssd-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{ssd-update-successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{3})
@item @b{ssd-update-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILED} @samp{4})
@end table
@item unique-Challenge-Report
@code{UniqueChallengeReport ::= [PRIVATE 124] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.162.  The octet can assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unique-challenge-not-attempted}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NOT_ATTEMPTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{unique-challenge-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{unique-challenge-successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILED} @samp{4})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Status-Report-Res
@subsubsection Authentication-Status-Report-Res
@vindex Authentication-Status-Report-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Authentication-Status-Report-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{468}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab468,468,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Authentication-Status-Report-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Algorithm-Version
@code{AuthenticationAlgorithmVersion ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in
ANSI 41-D 6.5.2.7.
@item authentication-Response-Unique-Challenge
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item deny-Access
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{ssd-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{2})
@item @b{count-update-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILURE} @samp{4})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{6})
@item @b{process-collision}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROCESS_COLLISION} @samp{7})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{8})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{9})
@item @b{min-or-esn-authorization-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_OR_ESN_AUTHORIZATION_FAILURE} @samp{10})
@end table
@item random-Variable-SSD
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for generating shared secret data (SSD-A and SSD-B).  The random number is chosen independently by
the AC during the process to update the mobile station's SSD.
@code{RandomVariableSSD ::= [PRIVATE 42] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.103.
@item random-Variable-Unique-Challenge
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for authenticating a specific mobile station.  The random number is chosen independently by the AC
or VLR whenever a unique challenge is prescribed by local AC or VLR authentication procedures.
@code{RandomVariableUniqueChallenge ::= [PRIVATE 43] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.104.
@item shared-Secret-Data
@code{SharedSecretData ::= [PRIVATE 46] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (16))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.119.
@item ssd-Not-Shared
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{discard-ssd}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCARD_SSD} @samp{1})
@end table
@item update-Count
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{update-count}
(@samp{MAP_T_UPDATE_COUNT} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Base-Station-Challenge-Arg
@subsubsection Base-Station-Challenge-Arg
@vindex Base-Station-Challenge-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Base-Station-Challenge-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{469}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab469,469,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Base-Station-Challenge-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item random-Variable-Base-Station
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE authentication algorithm
for base station authentication.  The random number is chosen independently by the MS during the
process to update its SSD.
@code{RandomVariableBaseStation ::= [PRIVATE 41] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.102.

@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Base-Station-Challenge-Res
@subsubsection Base-Station-Challenge-Res
@vindex Base-Station-Challenge-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Base-Station-Challenge-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{470}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab470,470,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Base-Station-Challenge-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Response-Base-Station
@code{AuthenticationResponseBaseStation ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as described
in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.11.
@end vtable

@node Blocking-Arg
@subsubsection Blocking-Arg
@vindex Blocking-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Blocking-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{471}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab471,471,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Blocking-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@end vtable

@node Blocking-Res
@subsubsection Blocking-Res
@vindex Blocking-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Blocking-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it does not provide any attributes of its own.

@node Bulk-Deregistration-Arg
@subsubsection Bulk-Deregistration-Arg
@vindex Bulk-Deregistration-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Bulk-Deregistration-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{472}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab472,472,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Bulk-Deregistration-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Bulk-Deregistration-Res
@subsubsection Bulk-Deregistration-Res
@vindex Bulk-Deregistration-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Bulk-Deregistration-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it does not provide any attributes of its own.

@node Count-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Count-Request-Arg
@vindex Count-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Count-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{473}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab473,473,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Count-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Count-Request-Res
@subsubsection Count-Request-Res
@vindex Count-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Count-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{474}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab474,474,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Count-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Facilities-Directive-Arg
@vindex Facilities-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{475}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab475,475,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item inter-Switch-Count
@code{InterSwitchCount ::= [PRIVATE 7] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.

@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item handoff-State
@code{HandoffState ::= [PRIVATE 164] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.71.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Facilities-Directive-Res
@vindex Facilities-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{476}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab476,476,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Directive-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Directive-2-Arg
@subsubsection Facilities-Directive-2-Arg
@vindex Facilities-Directive-2-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Directive-2-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{477}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab477,477,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Directive-2-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item inter-Switch-Count
@code{InterSwitchCount ::= [PRIVATE 7] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.

@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Call-Mode
@code{CdmaCallMode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.29.
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Mobile-Protocol-Revision
@code{CdmaMobileProtocolRevision ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.34.
@item cdma-Private-Long-Code-Mask
@code{CdmaPrivateLongCodeMask ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.36.
@item cdma-Serving-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaServingOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.38.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item cdma-Target-MAHO-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@item cdma-Target-Measurement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item handoff-State
@code{HandoffState ::= [PRIVATE 164] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.71.
@item ms-Location
Provides the estimated location (latitude, longitude) of the mobile station with corresponding
resolution.
@code{MSLocation ::= [PRIVATE 70] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7..8))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Call-Mode
Identifies certain characteristics of a dual-mode AMPS and NAMPS mobile station.
@code{NAMPSCallMode ::= [PRIVATE 165] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Directive-2-Res
@subsubsection Facilities-Directive-2-Res
@vindex Facilities-Directive-2-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Directive-2-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{478}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab478,478,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Directive-2-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Code-Channel-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@item cdma-Search-Window
@code{CdmaSearchWindow ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.37.
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Release-Arg
@subsubsection Facilities-Release-Arg
@vindex Facilities-Release-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Release-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{479}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab479,479,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Release-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item release-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_RELEASE_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{0})
@item @b{call-over-clear-forward}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_OVER_CLEAR_FORWARD} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-over-clear-backward}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_OVER_CLEAR_BACKWARD} @samp{2})
@item @b{handoff-successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{3})
@item @b{handoff-abort-call-over}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_ABORT_CALL_OVER} @samp{4})
@item @b{handoff-abort-not-received}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_ABORT_NOT_RECEIVED} @samp{5})
@item @b{abnormal-mobile-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABNORMAL_MOBILE_TERMINATION} @samp{6})
@item @b{abnormal-switch-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABNORMAL_SWITCH_TERMINATION} @samp{7})
@item @b{special-feature-release}
(@samp{MAP_T_SPECIAL_FEATURE_RELEASE} @samp{8})
@end table

@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@end vtable

@node Facilities-Release-Res
@subsubsection Facilities-Release-Res
@vindex Facilities-Release-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Facilities-Release-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{480}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab480,480,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Facilities-Release-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@end vtable

@node Feature-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Feature-Request-Arg
@vindex Feature-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Feature-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{481}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab481,481,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Feature-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item conference-Calling-Indicator
@code{ConferenceCallingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 137] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets specify
the maximum number of conferees between 1 and 254.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(Serving)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pc-SSN
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.
@end vtable

@node Feature-Request-Res
@subsubsection Feature-Request-Res
@vindex Feature-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Feature-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{482}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab482,482,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Feature-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item feature-Result
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unsuccessful}
(@samp{MAP_T_FEATURE_UNSUCCESSFUL} @samp{1})
@item @b{successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_FEATURE_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{2})
@end table

@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item action-Code
An octet string containing the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-processing}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_PROCESSING} @samp{1})
@item @b{disconnect-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL} @samp{2})
@item @b{disconnect-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL_LEG} @samp{3})
@item @b{conference-calling-drop-last-party}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONFERENCE_CALLING_DROP_LAST_PARTY} @samp{4})
@item @b{bridge-call-legs-to-conference-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_BRIDGE_CALL_LEGS_TO_CONFERENCE_CALL} @samp{5})
@item @b{drop-call-leg-on-busy-or-routing-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_DROP_CALL_LEG_ON_BUSY_OR_ROUTING_FAILURE} @samp{6})
@item @b{disconnect-all-call-legs}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_ALL_CALL_LEGS} @samp{7})
@end table
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item conference-Calling-Indicator
@code{ConferenceCallingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 137] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets specify
the maximum number of conferees between 1 and 254.
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Redirection-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_REDIRECTION_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
The type of redirection is not defined in ANSI 41-D.
@item @b{cfu}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFU} @samp{1})
The call was redirected for call forwarding unconditional.
@item @b{cfb}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFB} @samp{2})
The call was redirected for call forwarding busy.
@item @b{cfna}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFNA} @samp{3})
The call was redirected for call forwarding no answer.
@item @b{cfo}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFO} @samp{4})
The call was redirected for call forwarding other.
@item @b{cd-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{5})
The call was redirected for call delivery via an unspecified network.
@item @b{cd-pstn}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN} @samp{6})
The call was redirected for call delivery via the PSTN.
@item @b{cd-private}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_PRIVATE} @samp{7})
The call was redirected for call delivery via private facilities.
@item @b{pstn-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN_TANDEM} @samp{8})
The call was routed as a PSTN tandem call.
@item @b{private-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVATE_TANDEM} @samp{9})
The call was routed as a private facility tandem call.
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{10})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was busy.
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{11})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was inactive.
@item @b{unassigned}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED} @samp{12})
The call was redirected because the addressed directory number was unassigned.
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{13})
The call was redirected because termination was denied.
@item @b{cd-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_FAILURE} @samp{14})
The call was redirected because of call delivery failure.
@item @b{ect}
(@samp{MAP_T_ECT} @samp{15})
The call was redirected because of explicit call transfer.
@item @b{mah}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAH} @samp{16})
The call was redirected for mobile access hunting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{fa}
(@samp{MAP_T_FA} @samp{17})
The call was redirected for flexible alerting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{abandoned-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABANDONED_CALL_LEG} @samp{18})
The call was redirected because a call leg was abandonned.
@item @b{pca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_PCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{19})
Password call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{sca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_SCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{20})
Selective call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{dialogue}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE} @samp{21})
@item @b{cfd}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFD} @samp{22})
The call was redirected for call forwarding default.
@item @b{cd-local}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_LOCAL} @samp{23})
The call was redirected for call delivery locally.
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{24})
The call was redirected for voice mail retrieval.
@end table
@item group-Information
@code{GroupInformation ::= [PRIVATE 163] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.69.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item no-Answer-Time
@code{NoAnswerTime ::= [PRIVATE 96] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets encode the interval,
in seconds, to wait after alerting an MS or after seizing an outgoing trunk before no-answer
treatment is supplited.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.87.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item paca-Indicator
Indicates the priority access and channel assignment (PACA) permanent activation status and priority
level assigned to the subscriber.
@code{PACAIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 146] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.91.
@item pilot-Number
Contains the pilot directory number for a multileg call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Termination-List}. @xref{Termination-List}.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node Flash-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Flash-Request-Arg
@vindex Flash-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Flash-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{483}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab483,483,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Flash-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@end vtable

@node Flash-Request-Res
@subsubsection Flash-Request-Res
@vindex Flash-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Flash-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it provides no attributes of its own.

@node Handoff-Back-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-Back-Arg
@vindex Handoff-Back-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Back-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{484}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab484,484,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Back-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.

@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item handoff-State
@code{HandoffState ::= [PRIVATE 164] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.71.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Back-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-Back-Res
@vindex Handoff-Back-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Back-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{485}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab485,485,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Back-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.

@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Back-2-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-Back-2-Arg
@vindex Handoff-Back-2-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Back-2-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{486}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab486,486,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Back-2-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.

@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Call-Mode
@code{CdmaCallMode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.29.
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Mobile-Protocol-Revision
@code{CdmaMobileProtocolRevision ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.34.
@item cdma-Private-Long-Code-Mask
@code{CdmaPrivateLongCodeMask ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.36.
@item cdma-Serving-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaServingOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.38.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item cdma-Target-MAHO-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@item cdma-Target-Measurement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item handoff-State
@code{HandoffState ::= [PRIVATE 164] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.71.
@item ms-Location
Provides the estimated location (latitude, longitude) of the mobile station with corresponding
resolution.
@code{MSLocation ::= [PRIVATE 70] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7..8))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Call-Mode
Identifies certain characteristics of a dual-mode AMPS and NAMPS mobile station.
@code{NAMPSCallMode ::= [PRIVATE 165] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Back-2-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-Back-2-Res
@vindex Handoff-Back-2-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Back-2-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{487}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab487,487,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Back-2-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Code-Channel-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@item cdma-Search-Window
@code{CdmaSearchWindow ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.37.
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Mode
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Measurement-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-Measurement-Request-Arg
@vindex Handoff-Measurement-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{488}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab488,488,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.

@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Measurement-Request-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-Measurement-Request-Res
@vindex Handoff-Measurement-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{489}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab489,489,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item signal-Quality
@code{SignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 11] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}  Values are interpreted as specified
in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.121.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Arg
@vindex Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{490}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab490,490,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.

@item cdma-Call-Mode
@code{CdmaCallMode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.29.
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Serving-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaServingOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.38.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item ms-Location
Provides the estimated location (latitude, longitude) of the mobile station with corresponding
resolution.
@code{MSLocation ::= [PRIVATE 70] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7..8))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Call-Mode
Identifies certain characteristics of a dual-mode AMPS and NAMPS mobile station.
@code{NAMPSCallMode ::= [PRIVATE 165] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Res
@vindex Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{491}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab491,491,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-Measurement-Request-2-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Target-Measurement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@item target-Measurement-List
This attributes is an instance of OM class
@b{Target-Measurement-List}.
@xref{Target-Measurement-List}.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-To-Third-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-To-Third-Arg
@vindex Handoff-To-Third-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-To-Third-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{492}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab492,492,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-To-Third-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item inter-Switch-Count
(Serving)
@code{InterSwitchCount ::= [PRIVATE 7] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Target)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.

@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-To-Third-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-To-Third-Res
@vindex Handoff-To-Third-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-To-Third-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{493}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab493,493,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-To-Third-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-To-Third-2-Arg
@subsubsection Handoff-To-Third-2-Arg
@vindex Handoff-To-Third-2-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-To-Third-2-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{494}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab494,494,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-To-Third-2-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item inter-Switch-Count
(Serving)
@code{InterSwitchCount ::= [PRIVATE 7] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Target)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Call-Mode
@code{CdmaCallMode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.29.
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Mobile-Protocol-Revision
@code{CdmaMobileProtocolRevision ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.34.
@item cdma-Private-Long-Code-Mask
@code{CdmaPrivateLongCodeMask ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.36.
@item cdma-Serving-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaServingOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.38.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item cdma-Target-MAHO-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}.
@item cdma-Target-Measurement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}.
@item channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Desired)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item handoff-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_HANDOFF_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{weak-signal}
(@samp{MAP_T_WEAK_SIGNAL} @samp{2})
@item @b{off-loading}
(@samp{MAP_T_OFF_LOADING} @samp{3})
@item @b{anticipatory}
(@samp{MAP_T_ANTICIPATORY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item ms-Location
Provides the estimated location (latitude, longitude) of the mobile station with corresponding
resolution.
@code{MSLocation ::= [PRIVATE 70] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7..8))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Call-Mode
Identifies certain characteristics of a dual-mode AMPS and NAMPS mobile station.
@code{NAMPSCallMode ::= [PRIVATE 165] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.84.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item station-Class-Mark
@code{StationClassMark ::= [PRIVATE 12] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.143.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Serving)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Call-Mode
@code{TDMACallMode ::= [PRIVATE 29] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.152.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Serving)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Handoff-To-Third-2-Res
@subsubsection Handoff-To-Third-2-Res
@vindex Handoff-To-Third-2-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Handoff-To-Third-2-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{495}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab495,495,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Handoff-To-Third-2-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{CdmaChannelData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))} Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.30.
@item cdma-Code-Channel-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@xref{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}.
@item cdma-Search-Window
@code{CdmaSearchWindow ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.37.
@item channel-Data
(Target)
@code{ChannelData :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|3)}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.47.
@item confidentiality-Modes
(Actual)
@code{ConfidentialityModes ::= [PRIVATE 39] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded a
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.50.
@item namps-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{NAMPSChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 74] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.86.
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item tdma-Burst-Indicator
(Target)
@code{TDMABurstIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 31] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.151.
@item tdma-Channel-Data
(Target)
@code{TDMAChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 28] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded a specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.153.
@end vtable

@node Information-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Information-Directive-Arg
@vindex Information-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Information-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{496}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab496,496,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Information-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Information-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Information-Directive-Res
@vindex Information-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Information-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{497}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab497,497,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Information-Directive-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item alert-Result
@code{AlertResult ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@end vtable

@node Information-Forward-Arg
@subsubsection Information-Forward-Arg
@vindex Information-Forward-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Information-Forward-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{498}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab498,498,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Information-Forward-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Count
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationCount ::= [PRIVATE 92] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2|4|..))}  Octets
encode the type of messages in the first octet and the number of messages waiting in the second
octets (possibly zero).  Multiple pairs of octets can occur.  The first octet can have values:
@table @asis
@item @b{voice-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MESSAGES} @samp{0})
@item @b{short-message-service-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHORT_MESSAGE_SERVICE_MESSAGES} @samp{1})
@item @b{group-3-fax-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_GROUP_3_FAX_MESSAGES} @samp{2})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Type
Used to convey the subscriber's message waiting notification options to the serving system.
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationType ::= [PRIVATE 145] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.79.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item reidrecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@end vtable

@node Information-Forward-Res
@subsubsection Information-Forward-Res
@vindex Information-Forward-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Information-Forward-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{499}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab499,499,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Information-Forward-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item alert-Result
@code{AlertResult ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Answer-Arg
@subsubsection Inter-System-Answer-Arg
@vindex Inter-System-Answer-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Answer-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{500}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab500,500,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Answer-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Answer-Res
@subsubsection Inter-System-Answer-Res
@vindex Inter-System-Answer-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Answer-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it provides no attributes of its own.

@node Inter-System-Page-Arg
@subsubsection Inter-System-Page-Arg
@vindex Inter-System-Page-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Page-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{501}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab501,501,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Page-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item cdma-Slot-Cycle-Index
@code{CdmaSlotCycleIndex ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.40.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item extended-MSC-ID
(Serving MSC)
@code{ExtendedMSCID ::= [PRIVATE 53] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.64.
@item extended-System-My-Type-Code
(Serving MSC)
@code{ExtendedSystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 54] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.65.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(Originating MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item page-Indicator
Indicates if paging should occur or if the system should only listen for a page response.
@code{PageIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 71] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.92.
@item pc-SSN
(Originating MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item pilot-Billing-ID
@code{PilotBillingID ::= [PRIVATE 169] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.94.
@item pilot-Number
Contains the pilot directory number for a multileg call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item system-My-Type-Code
(Originating MSC)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table
@item termination-Treatment
@code{TerminationTreatment ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.158.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_TERMINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{voice-mail-storage}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_STORAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{dialogue-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE_TERMINATION} @samp{4})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Page-Res
@subsubsection Inter-System-Page-Res
@vindex Inter-System-Page-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Page-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{502}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab502,502,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Page-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item billing-ID
(Terminating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item conditionally-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{waitable}
(@samp{MAP_T_WAITABLE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item extended-MSC-ID
(Border MSC)
@code{ExtendedMSCID ::= [PRIVATE 53] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.64.
@item extended-System-My-Type-Code
(Border MSC)
@code{ExtendedSystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 54] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.65.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item pc-SSN
(Border MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Page-2-Arg
@subsubsection Inter-System-Page-2-Arg
@vindex Inter-System-Page-2-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Page-2-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{503}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab503,503,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Page-2-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item cdma-Slot-Cycle-Index
@code{CdmaSlotCycleIndex ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.40.
@item cdma-Station-Class-Mark
@code{CdmaStationClassMark ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.41.
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item page-Indicator
Indicates if paging should occur or if the system should only listen for a page response.
@code{PageIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 71] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.92.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Page-2-Res
@subsubsection Inter-System-Page-2-Res
@vindex Inter-System-Page-2-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Page-2-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{504}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab504,504,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Page-2-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item authentication-Response
@code{AuthenticationResponseUniqueChallenge ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are coded as
described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.12.
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item randc
Indicates which random variable was used by the mobile station to compute the authentication
response.
@code{RANDC ::= [PRIVATE 99] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets contain the 8 most
significant bits of the 32-bit random variable used to compute the authentication response.
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.100.
@item random-Variable
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE algorithm for mobile station
authentication, signaling message encryption and digital channel voice privacy.  The random number
is chosen by the serving MSC.
@code{RandomVariable ::= [PRIVATE 40] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.101.
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Setup-Arg
@subsubsection Inter-System-Setup-Arg
@vindex Inter-System-Setup-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Setup-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{505}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab505,505,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Setup-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item cdma-Private-Long-Code-Mask
@code{CdmaPrivateLongCodeMask ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.36.
@item signaling-Message-Encryption-Key
@code{SignalingMessageEncryptionKey ::= [PRIVATE 45] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.120.
@item voice-Privacy-Mask
@code{VoicePrivacyMask ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (66))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.166.
@end vtable

@node Inter-System-Setup-Res
@subsubsection Inter-System-Setup-Res
@vindex Inter-System-Setup-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Inter-System-Setup-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{506}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab506,506,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Inter-System-Setup-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item setup-Result
@code{SetupResult ::= [PRIVATE 151] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.118.  The octet may assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unsuccessful}
(@samp{MAP_T_SETUP_UNSUCCESSFUL} @samp{1})
@item @b{successful}
(@samp{MAP_T_SETUP_SUCCESSFUL} @samp{2})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Location-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Location-Request-Arg
@vindex Location-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Location-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{507}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab507,507,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(Originating)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item system-My-Type-Code
(Originating)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item pc-SSN
(Originating)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item redirecting-Number-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item termination-Access-Type
@code{TerminationAccessType ::= [PRIVATE 119] OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.155.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{mobile-to-mobile-directory-number-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOBILE_TO_MOBILE_DIRECTORY_NUMBER_ACCESS} @samp{252})
@item @b{land-to-mobile-directory-number-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_LAND_TO_MOBILE_DIRECTORY_NUMBER_ACCESS} @samp{253})
@item @b{remote-feature-control-port-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_REMOTE_FEATURE_CONTROL_PORT_ACCESS} @samp{254})
@item @b{roamer-port-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_ROAMER_PORT_ACCESS} @samp{255})
@end table
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.
@end vtable

@node Location-Request-Res
@subsubsection Location-Request-Res
@vindex Location-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Location-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{508}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab508,508,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Location-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Serving MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Redirection-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_REDIRECTION_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
The type of redirection is not defined in ANSI 41-D.
@item @b{cfu}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFU} @samp{1})
The call was redirected for call forwarding unconditional.
@item @b{cfb}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFB} @samp{2})
The call was redirected for call forwarding busy.
@item @b{cfna}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFNA} @samp{3})
The call was redirected for call forwarding no answer.
@item @b{cfo}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFO} @samp{4})
The call was redirected for call forwarding other.
@item @b{cd-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{5})
The call was redirected for call delivery via an unspecified network.
@item @b{cd-pstn}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN} @samp{6})
The call was redirected for call delivery via the PSTN.
@item @b{cd-private}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_PRIVATE} @samp{7})
The call was redirected for call delivery via private facilities.
@item @b{pstn-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN_TANDEM} @samp{8})
The call was routed as a PSTN tandem call.
@item @b{private-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVATE_TANDEM} @samp{9})
The call was routed as a private facility tandem call.
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{10})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was busy.
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{11})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was inactive.
@item @b{unassigned}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED} @samp{12})
The call was redirected because the addressed directory number was unassigned.
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{13})
The call was redirected because termination was denied.
@item @b{cd-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_FAILURE} @samp{14})
The call was redirected because of call delivery failure.
@item @b{ect}
(@samp{MAP_T_ECT} @samp{15})
The call was redirected because of explicit call transfer.
@item @b{mah}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAH} @samp{16})
The call was redirected for mobile access hunting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{fa}
(@samp{MAP_T_FA} @samp{17})
The call was redirected for flexible alerting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{abandoned-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABANDONED_CALL_LEG} @samp{18})
The call was redirected because a call leg was abandonned.
@item @b{pca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_PCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{19})
Password call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{sca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_SCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{20})
Selective call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{dialogue}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE} @samp{21})
@item @b{cfd}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFD} @samp{22})
The call was redirected for call forwarding default.
@item @b{cd-local}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_LOCAL} @samp{23})
The call was redirected for call delivery locally.
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{24})
The call was redirected for voice mail retrieval.
@end table
@item group-Information
@code{GroupInformation ::= [PRIVATE 163] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.69.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item no-Answer-Time
@code{NoAnswerTime ::= [PRIVATE 96] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets encode the interval,
in seconds, to wait after alerting an MS or after seizing an outgoing trunk before no-answer
treatment is supplited.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.87.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pc-SSN
(Serving MSC or VLR)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item redirecting-Number-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Termination-List}. @xref{Termination-List}.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node Mobile-On-Channel-Arg
@subsubsection Mobile-On-Channel-Arg
@vindex Mobile-On-Channel-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Mobile-On-Channel-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}; it provides no attributes of its own.

@node MS-Inactive-Arg
@subsubsection MS-Inactive-Arg
@vindex MS-Inactive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{MS-Inactive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{509}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab509,509,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{MS-Inactive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item deregistration-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{deregister-for-an-unspecified-reason}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEREGISTER_FOR_AN_UNSPECIFIED_REASON} @samp{1})
@item @b{deregister-for-an-administrative-reason}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEREGISTER_FOR_AN_ADMINISTRATIVE_REASON} @samp{2})
@item @b{deregister-due-to-ms-power-down}
(@samp{MAP_T_DEREGISTER_DUE_TO_MS_POWER_DOWN} @samp{3})
@end table
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Message-Waiting-Indicator
@code{SMS-MessageWaitingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 118] IMPLICIT NULL}
@end vtable

@node MS-Inactive-Res
@subsubsection MS-Inactive-Res
@vindex MS-Inactive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{MS-Inactive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it provides no attributes of its own.

@node Origination-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Origination-Request-Arg
@vindex Origination-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Origination-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{510}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab510,510,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Origination-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Originating MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item origination-Triggers
Defines the origination trigger points that are currently active for the subscriber.
@code{OriginationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 98] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.90.
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.

@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-Digits-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided calling party number information.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pc-SSN
(Originating MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Origination-Request-Res
@subsubsection Origination-Request-Res
@vindex Origination-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Origination-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{511}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab511,511,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Origination-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item action-Code
An octet string containing the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-processing}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_PROCESSING} @samp{1})
@item @b{disconnect-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL} @samp{2})
@item @b{disconnect-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL_LEG} @samp{3})
@item @b{conference-calling-drop-last-party}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONFERENCE_CALLING_DROP_LAST_PARTY} @samp{4})
@item @b{bridge-call-legs-to-conference-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_BRIDGE_CALL_LEGS_TO_CONFERENCE_CALL} @samp{5})
@item @b{drop-call-leg-on-busy-or-routing-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_DROP_CALL_LEG_ON_BUSY_OR_ROUTING_FAILURE} @samp{6})
@item @b{disconnect-all-call-legs}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_ALL_CALL_LEGS} @samp{7})
@end table
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Redirection-Indicator
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_REDIRECTION_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
The type of redirection is not defined in ANSI 41-D.
@item @b{cfu}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFU} @samp{1})
The call was redirected for call forwarding unconditional.
@item @b{cfb}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFB} @samp{2})
The call was redirected for call forwarding busy.
@item @b{cfna}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFNA} @samp{3})
The call was redirected for call forwarding no answer.
@item @b{cfo}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFO} @samp{4})
The call was redirected for call forwarding other.
@item @b{cd-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{5})
The call was redirected for call delivery via an unspecified network.
@item @b{cd-pstn}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN} @samp{6})
The call was redirected for call delivery via the PSTN.
@item @b{cd-private}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_PRIVATE} @samp{7})
The call was redirected for call delivery via private facilities.
@item @b{pstn-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PSTN_TANDEM} @samp{8})
The call was routed as a PSTN tandem call.
@item @b{private-tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVATE_TANDEM} @samp{9})
The call was routed as a private facility tandem call.
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{10})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was busy.
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{11})
The call was redirected because the addressed subscriber was inactive.
@item @b{unassigned}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED} @samp{12})
The call was redirected because the addressed directory number was unassigned.
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{13})
The call was redirected because termination was denied.
@item @b{cd-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_FAILURE} @samp{14})
The call was redirected because of call delivery failure.
@item @b{ect}
(@samp{MAP_T_ECT} @samp{15})
The call was redirected because of explicit call transfer.
@item @b{mah}
(@samp{MAP_T_MAH} @samp{16})
The call was redirected for mobile access hunting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{fa}
(@samp{MAP_T_FA} @samp{17})
The call was redirected for flexible alerting call delivery attempt.
@item @b{abandoned-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_ABANDONED_CALL_LEG} @samp{18})
The call was redirected because a call leg was abandonned.
@item @b{pca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_PCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{19})
Password call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{sca-call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_SCA_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{20})
Selective call acceptance call was refused.
@item @b{dialogue}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE} @samp{21})
@item @b{cfd}
(@samp{MAP_T_CFD} @samp{22})
The call was redirected for call forwarding default.
@item @b{cd-local}
(@samp{MAP_T_CD_LOCAL} @samp{23})
The call was redirected for call delivery locally.
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{24})
The call was redirected for voice mail retrieval.
@end table
@item group-Information
@code{GroupInformation ::= [PRIVATE 163] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.69.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item no-Answer-Time
@code{NoAnswerTime ::= [PRIVATE 96] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets encode the interval,
in seconds, to wait after alerting an MS or after seizing an outgoing trunk before no-answer
treatment is supplited.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.87.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pilot-Number
Contains the pilot directory number for a multileg call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Termination-List}. @xref{Termination-List}.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node Qualitification-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Qualitification-Directive-Arg
@vindex Qualitification-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Qualitification-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{512}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab512,512,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Qualitification-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item qualification-Information-Code
Indicates the type of qualification required.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-information}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_INFORMATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{validation-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{validation-and-profile}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_AND_PROFILE} @samp{3})
@item @b{profile-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROFILE_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item system-My-Type-Code
(HLR or VLR)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item authorization-Denied
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{delinquent-account}
(@samp{MAP_T_DELINQUENT_ACCOUNT} @samp{1})
@item @b{invalid-serial-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_SERIAL_NUMBER} @samp{2})
@item @b{stolen-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_STOLEN_UNIT} @samp{3})
@item @b{duplicate-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_DUPLICATE_UNIT} @samp{4})
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{5})
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{6})
@item @b{multiple-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ACCESS} @samp{7})
@item @b{not-authorized-for-the-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THE_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{9})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{10})
@end table
@item authorization-Period
@code{AuthorizationPeriod = OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.14.
@item denied-Authorization-Period
@code{DeniedAuthorizationPeriod ::= [PRIVATE 167] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.53.
@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item profile
**Macro**

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Capability
Indicates whether a mobile station shall or shall not be authenticated.
@code{AuthenticationCapability ::= [PRIVATE 78] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.8.
@item calling-Features-Indicator
Defines the authorization and activity states of the mobile stations' features.
@code{CallingFeaturesIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 25] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2..4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.20.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item geographic-Authorization
Indicates the geographic authorization capability of a mobile station.
@code{GeographicAuthorization ::= [PRIVATE 143] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.68.
The octet can have one of the following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{authorized-for-all-market-ids-served-by-the-vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_ALL_MARKET_IDS_SERVED_BY_THE_VLR} @samp{1})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-and-switch-number-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_AND_SWITCH_NUMBER_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-location-area-id-within-a-marked-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_LOCATION_AREA_ID_WITHIN_A_MARKED_ID_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Count
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationCount ::= [PRIVATE 92] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2|4|..))}  Octets
encode the type of messages in the first octet and the number of messages waiting in the second
octets (possibly zero).  Multiple pairs of octets can occur.  The first octet can have values:
@table @asis
@item @b{voice-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MESSAGES} @samp{0})
@item @b{short-message-service-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHORT_MESSAGE_SERVICE_MESSAGES} @samp{1})
@item @b{group-3-fax-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_GROUP_3_FAX_MESSAGES} @samp{2})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Type
Used to convey the subscriber's message waiting notification options to the serving system.
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationType ::= [PRIVATE 145] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.79.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item origination-Indicator
Defines the type of calls the mobile station is allowed to originate.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{prior-agreement}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIOR_AGREEMENT} @samp{1})
@item @b{origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{2})
@item @b{local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{4})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number-and-local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER_AND_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{5})
@item @b{national-long-distance}
(@samp{MAP_T_NATIONAL_LONG_DISTANCE} @samp{6})
@item @b{international-calls}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_CALLS} @samp{7})
@item @b{single-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SINGLE_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{8})
@end table
@item origination-Triggers
Defines the origination trigger points that are currently active for the subscriber.
@code{OriginationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 98] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.90.
@item paca-Indicator
Indicates the priority access and channel assignment (PACA) permanent activation status and priority
level assigned to the subscriber.
@code{PACAIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 146] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.91.
@item preferred-Language-Indicator
Indicates the preferred language feature activity status and lonaguage associated with the
subscriber.  @code{PreferredLanguageIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 147] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.96.  The octet may asssume one of the
following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_LANGUAGE_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{0})
@item @b{english}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENGLISH} @samp{1})
@item @b{french}
(@samp{MAP_T_FRENCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{spanish}
(@samp{MAP_T_SPANISH} @samp{3})
@item @b{german}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERMAN} @samp{4})
@item @b{portuguese}
(@samp{MAP_T_PORTUGUESE} @samp{5})
@end table
@item restriction-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Origination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-OriginationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 115] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.136.
@item sms-Termination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-TerminationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 117] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.138.
@item spini-PIN
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item spini-Triggers
@code{SPINITriggers ::= [PRIVATE 155] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.140.
@item termination-Restriction-Code
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{unrestriected}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{treatment-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_TREATMENT_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Qualitification-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Qualitification-Directive-Res
@vindex Qualitification-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Qualitification-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it defines no attributes of its own.

@node Qualification-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Qualification-Request-Arg
@vindex Qualification-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Qualification-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{513}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab513,513,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Qualification-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item qualification-Information-Code
Indicates the type of qualification required.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-information}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_INFORMATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{validation-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{validation-and-profile}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_AND_PROFILE} @samp{3})
@item @b{profile-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROFILE_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item system-My-Type-Code
(MSC or VLR)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item mscid
(Serving MSC or Originating MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.
@end vtable

@node Qualification-Request-Res
@subsubsection Qualification-Request-Res
@vindex Qualification-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Qualification-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{514}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab514,514,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Qualification-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item system-My-Type-Code
(VLR or HLR)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item authorization-Denied
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{delinquent-account}
(@samp{MAP_T_DELINQUENT_ACCOUNT} @samp{1})
@item @b{invalid-serial-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_SERIAL_NUMBER} @samp{2})
@item @b{stolen-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_STOLEN_UNIT} @samp{3})
@item @b{duplicate-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_DUPLICATE_UNIT} @samp{4})
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{5})
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{6})
@item @b{multiple-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ACCESS} @samp{7})
@item @b{not-authorized-for-the-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THE_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{9})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{10})
@end table
@item authorization-Period
@code{AuthorizationPeriod = OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.14.
@item denied-Authorization-Period
@code{DeniedAuthorizationPeriod ::= [PRIVATE 167] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.53.
@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(HLR)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item profile
**Macro**

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Capability
Indicates whether a mobile station shall or shall not be authenticated.
@code{AuthenticationCapability ::= [PRIVATE 78] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.8.
@item calling-Features-Indicator
Defines the authorization and activity states of the mobile stations' features.
@code{CallingFeaturesIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 25] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2..4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.20.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item geographic-Authorization
Indicates the geographic authorization capability of a mobile station.
@code{GeographicAuthorization ::= [PRIVATE 143] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.68.
The octet can have one of the following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{authorized-for-all-market-ids-served-by-the-vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_ALL_MARKET_IDS_SERVED_BY_THE_VLR} @samp{1})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-and-switch-number-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_AND_SWITCH_NUMBER_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-location-area-id-within-a-marked-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_LOCATION_AREA_ID_WITHIN_A_MARKED_ID_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Count
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationCount ::= [PRIVATE 92] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2|4|..))}  Octets
encode the type of messages in the first octet and the number of messages waiting in the second
octets (possibly zero).  Multiple pairs of octets can occur.  The first octet can have values:
@table @asis
@item @b{voice-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MESSAGES} @samp{0})
@item @b{short-message-service-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHORT_MESSAGE_SERVICE_MESSAGES} @samp{1})
@item @b{group-3-fax-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_GROUP_3_FAX_MESSAGES} @samp{2})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Type
Used to convey the subscriber's message waiting notification options to the serving system.
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationType ::= [PRIVATE 145] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.79.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item origination-Indicator
Defines the type of calls the mobile station is allowed to originate.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{prior-agreement}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIOR_AGREEMENT} @samp{1})
@item @b{origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{2})
@item @b{local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{4})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number-and-local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER_AND_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{5})
@item @b{national-long-distance}
(@samp{MAP_T_NATIONAL_LONG_DISTANCE} @samp{6})
@item @b{international-calls}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_CALLS} @samp{7})
@item @b{single-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SINGLE_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{8})
@end table
@item origination-Triggers
Defines the origination trigger points that are currently active for the subscriber.
@code{OriginationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 98] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.90.
@item paca-Indicator
Indicates the priority access and channel assignment (PACA) permanent activation status and priority
level assigned to the subscriber.
@code{PACAIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 146] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.91.
@item preferred-Language-Indicator
Indicates the preferred language feature activity status and lonaguage associated with the
subscriber.  @code{PreferredLanguageIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 147] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.96.  The octet may asssume one of the
following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_LANGUAGE_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{0})
@item @b{english}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENGLISH} @samp{1})
@item @b{french}
(@samp{MAP_T_FRENCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{spanish}
(@samp{MAP_T_SPANISH} @samp{3})
@item @b{german}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERMAN} @samp{4})
@item @b{portuguese}
(@samp{MAP_T_PORTUGUESE} @samp{5})
@end table
@item restriction-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Origination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-OriginationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 115] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.136.
@item sms-Termination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-TerminationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 117] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.138.
@item spini-PIN
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item spini-Triggers
@code{SPINITriggers ::= [PRIVATE 155] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.140.
@item termination-Restriction-Code
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{unrestriected}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{treatment-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_TREATMENT_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@end vtable

@node Random-Variable-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Random-Variable-Request-Arg
@vindex Random-Variable-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Random-Variable-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{515}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab515,515,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Random-Variable-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mscid
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item randc
Indicates which random variable was used by the mobile station to compute the authentication
response.
@code{RANDC ::= [PRIVATE 99] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets contain the 8 most
significant bits of the 32-bit random variable used to compute the authentication response.
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.100.
@item serving-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the serving cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{ServingCellID ::= [PRIVATE 2] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.117.
@end vtable

@node Random-Variable-Request-Res
@subsubsection Random-Variable-Request-Res
@vindex Random-Variable-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Random-Variable-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{516}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab516,516,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Random-Variable-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item random-Variable
Contains a 32-bit random number that is used as input to the CAVE algorithm for mobile station
authentication, signaling message encryption and digital channel voice privacy.  The random number
is chosen by the serving MSC.
@code{RandomVariable ::= [PRIVATE 40] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded most
significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.101.
@item rand-Valid-Time
@code{RANDValidTime ::= [PRIVATE 148] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets contain the number
of minutes for which the associated received RAND is to be used.  An octet value of zero indicates
that the RAND shall not be stored.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.105.
@end vtable

@node Redirection-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Redirection-Directive-Arg
@vindex Redirection-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Redirection-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{517}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab517,517,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Redirection-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item system-My-Type-Code
(MSC)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Redirection-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Redirection-Directive-Res
@vindex Redirection-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Redirection-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it defines no attributes of its own.

@node Redirection-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Redirection-Request-Arg
@vindex Redirection-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Redirection-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{518}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab518,518,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Redirection-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item redirection-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-answer}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ANSWER} @samp{2})
@item @b{unconditional}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNCONDITIONAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{4})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unroutable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNROUTABLE} @samp{6})
A routing failure occured while attempting to complete the call.
@item @b{call-accepted}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ACCEPTED} @samp{7})
@item @b{call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{8})
@end table

@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Redirection-Request-Res
@subsubsection Redirection-Request-Res
@vindex Redirection-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Redirection-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it defines no attributes of its own.

@node Registration-Cancellation-Arg
@subsubsection Registration-Cancellation-Arg
@vindex Registration-Cancellation-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Registration-Cancellation-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{519}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab519,519,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Registration-Cancellation-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item cancellation-Type
@code{CancellationType ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  The octet can contain the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-system-option}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_SYSTEM_OPTION} @samp{1})
The serving system may discontinue a call or service in progress at its option.
@item @b{report-in-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_REPORT_IN_CALL} @samp{2})
The serving system shall continue to provide service when a call or service is in progress and just
report its incidence.
@item @b{discontinue}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONTINUE} @samp{3})
The serving system shall discontinue any call or service in progress, regardless of the mobile
station's qualification, profile, or authentication.
@end table
@item control-Channel-Data
@code{ControlChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 55] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.51.
@item received-Signal-Quality
@code{ReceiveSignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 72] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.106.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item system-Access-Data
@code{SystemAccessData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.144.
@end vtable

@node Registration-Cancellation-Res
@subsubsection Registration-Cancellation-Res
@vindex Registration-Cancellation-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Registration-Cancellation-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{520}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab520,520,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Registration-Cancellation-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-History-Count
@code{CallHistoryCount ::= INTEGER (0..63)}
@item cancellation-Denied
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{multiple-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ACCESS} @samp{1})
Example: the VLR has detected a multiple access situation and considers itself to be the serving
system.
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{2})
Example: the addressed MS is currently involved in a call or service request.
@end table
@item control-Channel-Data
@code{ControlChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 55] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.51.
@item received-Signal-Quality
@code{ReceiveSignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 72] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.106.
@item sms-Message-Waiting-Indicator
@code{SMS-MessageWaitingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 118] IMPLICIT NULL}
@item system-Access-Data
@code{SystemAccessData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.144.
@end vtable

@node Registration-Notification-Arg
@subsubsection Registration-Notification-Arg
@vindex Registration-Notification-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Registration-Notification-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{521}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab521,521,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Registration-Notification-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Serving MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item qualification-Information-Code
Indicates the type of qualification required.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-information}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_INFORMATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{validation-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{validation-and-profile}
(@samp{MAP_T_VALIDATION_AND_PROFILE} @samp{3})
@item @b{profile-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_PROFILE_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item system-My-Type-Code
(Serving MSC or VLR)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item availability-Type
@code{AvailabilityType :;= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.15.
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified-ms-inactivity-type}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED_MS_INACTIVITY_TYPE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item border-Cell-Access
@code{BorderCellAccess ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets can assume one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{border-cell-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_CELL_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@end table
@item control-Channel-Data
@code{ControlChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 55] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.51.
@item extended-MSC-ID
(VLR)
@code{ExtendedMSCID ::= [PRIVATE 53] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.64.
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item pc-SSN
(Serving MSC or VLR)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item received-Signal-Quality
@code{ReceiveSignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 72] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.106.
@item report-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified-security-violation}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED_SECURITY_VIOLATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{min-esn-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_MIN_ESN_MISMATCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{randc-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_RANDC_MISMATCH} @samp{3})
@item @b{ssd-update-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_FAILED} @samp{5})
@item @b{count-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_MISMATCH} @samp{7})
@item @b{unique-challenge-failed}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_FAILED} @samp{9})
@item @b{unsolicited-base-station-challenge}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSOLICITED_BASE_STATION_CHALLENGE} @samp{10})
@item @b{ssd-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SSD_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{11})
@item @b{count-update-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_COUNT_UPDATE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{12})
@item @b{unique-challenge-no-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNIQUE_CHALLENGE_NO_RESPONSE} @samp{13})
@item @b{authr-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHR_MISMATCH} @samp{14})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{15})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{16})
@end table
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  Digits are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.124.
@item sms-Message-Waiting-Indicator
@code{SMS-MessageWaitingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 118] IMPLICIT NULL}
@item system-Access-Data
@code{SystemAccessData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.144.
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item system-Capabilities
@code{SystemCapabilities ::= [PRIVATE 49] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.146.
@item terminal-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{not-distinguished}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_DISTINGUISHED} @samp{1})
@item @b{is-54-b}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_54_B} @samp{2})
@item @b{is-136}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_136} @samp{3})
@item @b{is-95}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95} @samp{32})
@item @b{is-95-a}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_95_A} @samp{33})
@item @b{is-88}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_88} @samp{64})
@item @b{is-94}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_94} @samp{65})
@item @b{is-91}
(@samp{MAP_T_IS_91} @samp{66})
@end table
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.
@end vtable

@node Registration-Notification-Res
@subsubsection Registration-Notification-Res
@vindex Registration-Notification-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Registration-Notification-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{522}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab522,522,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Registration-Notification-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item system-My-Type-Code
(VLR or HLR)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item authorization-Denied
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{delinquent-account}
(@samp{MAP_T_DELINQUENT_ACCOUNT} @samp{1})
@item @b{invalid-serial-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_SERIAL_NUMBER} @samp{2})
@item @b{stolen-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_STOLEN_UNIT} @samp{3})
@item @b{duplicate-unit}
(@samp{MAP_T_DUPLICATE_UNIT} @samp{4})
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{5})
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{6})
@item @b{multiple-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_MULTIPLE_ACCESS} @samp{7})
@item @b{not-authorized-for-the-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOT_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THE_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{missing-authentication-parameters}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_AUTHENTICATION_PARAMETERS} @samp{9})
@item @b{terminal-type-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINAL_TYPE_MISMATCH} @samp{10})
@end table
@item authorization-Period
@code{AuthorizationPeriod = OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are coded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.14.
@item control-Channel-Data
@code{ControlChannelData ::= [PRIVATE 55] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.51.
@item denied-Authorization-Period
@code{DeniedAuthorizationPeriod ::= [PRIVATE 167] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.53.
@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(HLR)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item profile
**Macro**

@vtable @var
@item authentication-Capability
Indicates whether a mobile station shall or shall not be authenticated.
@code{AuthenticationCapability ::= [PRIVATE 78] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.8.
@item calling-Features-Indicator
Defines the authorization and activity states of the mobile stations' features.
@code{CallingFeaturesIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 25] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2..4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.20.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item geographic-Authorization
Indicates the geographic authorization capability of a mobile station.
@code{GeographicAuthorization ::= [PRIVATE 143] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.68.
The octet can have one of the following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{authorized-for-all-market-ids-served-by-the-vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_ALL_MARKET_IDS_SERVED_BY_THE_VLR} @samp{1})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_ONLY} @samp{2})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-market-id-and-switch-number-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_MARKET_ID_AND_SWITCH_NUMBER_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{authorized-for-this-location-area-id-within-a-marked-id-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTHORIZED_FOR_THIS_LOCATION_AREA_ID_WITHIN_A_MARKED_ID_ONLY} @samp{4})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Count
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationCount ::= [PRIVATE 92] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2|4|..))}  Octets
encode the type of messages in the first octet and the number of messages waiting in the second
octets (possibly zero).  Multiple pairs of octets can occur.  The first octet can have values:
@table @asis
@item @b{voice-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MESSAGES} @samp{0})
@item @b{short-message-service-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_SHORT_MESSAGE_SERVICE_MESSAGES} @samp{1})
@item @b{group-3-fax-messages}
(@samp{MAP_T_GROUP_3_FAX_MESSAGES} @samp{2})
@end table
@item message-Waiting-Notification-Type
Used to convey the subscriber's message waiting notification options to the serving system.
@code{MessageWaitingNotificationType ::= [PRIVATE 145] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.79.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.2.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item origination-Indicator
Defines the type of calls the mobile station is allowed to originate.
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{prior-agreement}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIOR_AGREEMENT} @samp{1})
@item @b{origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{2})
@item @b{local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{3})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{4})
@item @b{selected-leading-digits-of-directory-number-and-local-calls-only}
(@samp{MAP_T_SELECTED_LEADING_DIGITS_OF_DIRECTORY_NUMBER_AND_LOCAL_CALLS_ONLY} @samp{5})
@item @b{national-long-distance}
(@samp{MAP_T_NATIONAL_LONG_DISTANCE} @samp{6})
@item @b{international-calls}
(@samp{MAP_T_INTERNATIONAL_CALLS} @samp{7})
@item @b{single-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_SINGLE_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{8})
@end table
@item origination-Triggers
Defines the origination trigger points that are currently active for the subscriber.
@code{OriginationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 98] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.90.
@item paca-Indicator
Indicates the priority access and channel assignment (PACA) permanent activation status and priority
level assigned to the subscriber.
@code{PACAIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 146] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.91.
@item preferred-Language-Indicator
Indicates the preferred language feature activity status and lonaguage associated with the
subscriber.  @code{PreferredLanguageIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 147] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.96.  The octet may asssume one of the
following (non-exhaustive) values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_LANGUAGE_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{0})
@item @b{english}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENGLISH} @samp{1})
@item @b{french}
(@samp{MAP_T_FRENCH} @samp{2})
@item @b{spanish}
(@samp{MAP_T_SPANISH} @samp{3})
@item @b{german}
(@samp{MAP_T_GERMAN} @samp{4})
@item @b{portuguese}
(@samp{MAP_T_PORTUGUESE} @samp{5})
@end table
@item restriction-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Origination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-OriginationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 115] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.136.
@item sms-Termination-Restrictions
@code{SMS-TerminationRestrictions ::= [PRIVATE 117] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.138.
@item spini-PIN
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item spini-Triggers
@code{SPINITriggers ::= [PRIVATE 155] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.140.
@item termination-Restriction-Code
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{unrestriected}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRESTRICTED} @samp{1})
@item @b{treatment-unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_TREATMENT_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@item received-Signal-Quality
@code{ReceiveSignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 72] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.106.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item sms-Message-Waiting-Indicator
@code{SMS-MessageWaitingIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 118] IMPLICIT NULL}
@item system-Access-Data
@code{SystemAccessData ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.3.144.
@end vtable

@node Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Arg
@vindex Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{523}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab523,523,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item digit-Collection-Control
@code{DigitCollectionControl ::= [PRIVATE 139] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (16))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.57.
@end vtable

@node Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Res
@vindex Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{524}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab524,524,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Remote-User-Interaction-Directive-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item digits
(Dialed)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Reset-Circuit-Arg
@subsubsection Reset-Circuit-Arg
@vindex Reset-Circuit-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Reset-Circuit-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{525}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab525,525,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Reset-Circuit-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@end vtable

@node Reset-Circuit-Res
@subsubsection Reset-Circuit-Res
@vindex Reset-Circuit-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Reset-Circuit-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{526}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab526,526,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Reset-Circuit-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item trunk-Status
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{idle}
(@samp{MAP_T_IDLE} @samp{0})
@item @b{blocked}
(@samp{MAP_T_BLOCKED} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Routing-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Routing-Request-Arg
@vindex Routing-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Routing-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{527}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab527,527,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Routing-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item mscid
(Originating MSC)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item system-My-Type-Code
(Originating MSC)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item destination-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item location-Area-ID
@code{LocationAreaID ::= [PRIVATE 33] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets encode the location
area id, most significant octet first, and least significant octet second.  See ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.77.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item no-Answer-Time
@code{NoAnswerTime ::= [PRIVATE 96] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets encode the interval,
in seconds, to wait after alerting an MS or after seizing an outgoing trunk before no-answer
treatment is supplited.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.87.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pc-SSN
(Originating MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item pilot-Billing-ID
@code{PilotBillingID ::= [PRIVATE 169] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.94.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-Treatment
@code{TerminationTreatment ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.158.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_TERMINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{voice-mail-storage}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_STORAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{dialogue-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE_TERMINATION} @samp{4})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@item voice-Mailbox-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item voice-Mailbox-PIN
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Routing-Request-Res
@subsubsection Routing-Request-Res
@vindex Routing-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Routing-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{528}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab528,528,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Routing-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mscid
(Serving)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.

@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item billing-ID
(Anchor)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item conditionally-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{waitable}
(@samp{MAP_T_WAITABLE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item digits
(Destination)
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item pc-SSN
(Serving MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Backward-Arg
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Backward-Arg
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Backward-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Backward-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{529}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab529,529,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Backward-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Teleservice-Identifier
@code{SMS-TeleserviceIdentifier ::= [PRIVATE 116] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.137.

@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item sms-Charge-Indicator
@code{SMS-ChargeIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 106] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.126.  The octet may contain the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-charge}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_CHARGE} @samp{1})
@item @b{charge-original-originator}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_ORIGINATOR} @samp{2})
@item @b{charge-original-destination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_DESTINATION} @samp{3})
@end table
@item sms-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.127.
@item sms-Original-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.131.
@item sms-Original-Destination-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.133.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.135.
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Backward-Res
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Backward-Res
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Backward-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Backward-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{530}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab530,530,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Backward-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Cause-Code
@code{SMS-CauseCode ::= [PRIVATE 153] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.125.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{address-vacant}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_VACANT} @samp{0})
@item @b{address-translation-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION_FAILURE} @samp{1})
@item @b{network-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{network-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{invalid-teleservice-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_TELESERVICE_ID} @samp{4})
@item @b{other-network-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_NETWORK_PROBLEM} @samp{5})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{32})
@item @b{destination-busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_BUSY} @samp{33})
@item @b{no-acknowledgement}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACKNOWLEDGEMENT} @samp{34})
@item @b{destination-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{35})
@item @b{sms-delivery-postponed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVERY_POSTPONED} @samp{36})
@item @b{destination-out-of-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_OUT_OF_SERVICE} @samp{37})
@item @b{destination-no-longer-at-this-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_NO_LONGER_AT_THIS_ADDRESS} @samp{38})
@item @b{other-terminal-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_TERMINAL_PROBLEM} @samp{39})
@item @b{radio-interface-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{64})
@item @b{radio-interface-incompatibility}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_INCOMPATIBILITY} @samp{65})
@item @b{other-radio-interface-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_RADIO_INTERFACE_PROBLEM} @samp{66})
@item @b{encoding-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENCODING_PROBLEM} @samp{96})
@item @b{sms-origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{97})
@item @b{sms-termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{98})
@item @b{supplementary-service-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPLEMENTARY_SERVICE_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{99})
@item @b{sms-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{100})
@item @b{missing-expected-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_EXPECTED_PARAMETER} @samp{102})
@item @b{missing-mandatory-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_MANDATORY_PARAMETER} @samp{103})
@item @b{unrecognized-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRECOGNIZED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{104})
@item @b{unexpected-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNEXPECTED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{105})
@item @b{user-data-size-error}
(@samp{MAP_T_USER_DATA_SIZE_ERROR} @samp{106})
@item @b{other-general-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_GENERAL_PROBLEM} @samp{107})
@end table
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Forward-Arg
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Forward-Arg
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Forward-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Forward-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{531}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab531,531,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Forward-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Teleservice-Identifier
@code{SMS-TeleserviceIdentifier ::= [PRIVATE 116] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.137.

@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item sms-Charge-Indicator
@code{SMS-ChargeIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 106] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.126.  The octet may contain the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-charge}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_CHARGE} @samp{1})
@item @b{charge-original-originator}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_ORIGINATOR} @samp{2})
@item @b{charge-original-destination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_DESTINATION} @samp{3})
@end table
@item sms-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.127.
@item sms-Original-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.131.
@item sms-Original-Destination-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.133.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.135.
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Forward-Res
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Forward-Res
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Forward-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Forward-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{532}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab532,532,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Forward-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Cause-Code
@code{SMS-CauseCode ::= [PRIVATE 153] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.125.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{address-vacant}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_VACANT} @samp{0})
@item @b{address-translation-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION_FAILURE} @samp{1})
@item @b{network-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{network-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{invalid-teleservice-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_TELESERVICE_ID} @samp{4})
@item @b{other-network-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_NETWORK_PROBLEM} @samp{5})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{32})
@item @b{destination-busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_BUSY} @samp{33})
@item @b{no-acknowledgement}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACKNOWLEDGEMENT} @samp{34})
@item @b{destination-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{35})
@item @b{sms-delivery-postponed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVERY_POSTPONED} @samp{36})
@item @b{destination-out-of-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_OUT_OF_SERVICE} @samp{37})
@item @b{destination-no-longer-at-this-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_NO_LONGER_AT_THIS_ADDRESS} @samp{38})
@item @b{other-terminal-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_TERMINAL_PROBLEM} @samp{39})
@item @b{radio-interface-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{64})
@item @b{radio-interface-incompatibility}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_INCOMPATIBILITY} @samp{65})
@item @b{other-radio-interface-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_RADIO_INTERFACE_PROBLEM} @samp{66})
@item @b{encoding-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENCODING_PROBLEM} @samp{96})
@item @b{sms-origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{97})
@item @b{sms-termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{98})
@item @b{supplementary-service-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPLEMENTARY_SERVICE_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{99})
@item @b{sms-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{100})
@item @b{missing-expected-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_EXPECTED_PARAMETER} @samp{102})
@item @b{missing-mandatory-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_MANDATORY_PARAMETER} @samp{103})
@item @b{unrecognized-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRECOGNIZED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{104})
@item @b{unexpected-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNEXPECTED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{105})
@item @b{user-data-size-error}
(@samp{MAP_T_USER_DATA_SIZE_ERROR} @samp{106})
@item @b{other-general-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_GENERAL_PROBLEM} @samp{107})
@end table
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Arg
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Arg
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{533}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab533,533,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Teleservice-Identifier
@code{SMS-TeleserviceIdentifier ::= [PRIVATE 116] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.137.

@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item sms-Charge-Indicator
@code{SMS-ChargeIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 106] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.126.  The octet may contain the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{no-charge}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_CHARGE} @samp{1})
@item @b{charge-original-originator}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_ORIGINATOR} @samp{2})
@item @b{charge-original-destination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CHARGE_ORIGINAL_DESTINATION} @samp{3})
@end table
@item sms-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.127.
@item sms-Message-Count
@code{SMS-MessageCount ::= [PRIVATE 108] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets contain the count of the messages and are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.128.
@item sms-Notification-Indicator
@code{SMS-NotificationIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 109] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.130.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{notify-when-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_WHEN_AVAILABLE} @samp{1})
@item @b{do-not-notify-when-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_DO_NOT_NOTIFY_WHEN_AVAILABLE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item sms-Original-Destination-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.131.
@item sms-Original-Destination-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.133.
@item sms-Original-Originating-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item sms-Originating-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  For the format of the digits, see ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.135.
@end vtable

@node SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Res
@subsubsection SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Res
@vindex SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{534}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab534,534,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Delivery-Point-To-Point-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sms-Bearer-Data
@code{SMS-BearerData ::= [PRIVATE 105] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING}
@item sms-Cause-Code
@code{SMS-CauseCode ::= [PRIVATE 153] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.125.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{address-vacant}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_VACANT} @samp{0})
@item @b{address-translation-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION_FAILURE} @samp{1})
@item @b{network-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{network-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_NETWORK_FAILURE} @samp{3})
@item @b{invalid-teleservice-id}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_TELESERVICE_ID} @samp{4})
@item @b{other-network-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_NETWORK_PROBLEM} @samp{5})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{32})
@item @b{destination-busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_BUSY} @samp{33})
@item @b{no-acknowledgement}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACKNOWLEDGEMENT} @samp{34})
@item @b{destination-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{35})
@item @b{sms-delivery-postponed}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_DELIVERY_POSTPONED} @samp{36})
@item @b{destination-out-of-service}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_OUT_OF_SERVICE} @samp{37})
@item @b{destination-no-longer-at-this-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_DESTINATION_NO_LONGER_AT_THIS_ADDRESS} @samp{38})
@item @b{other-terminal-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_TERMINAL_PROBLEM} @samp{39})
@item @b{radio-interface-resource-shortage}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE} @samp{64})
@item @b{radio-interface-incompatibility}
(@samp{MAP_T_RADIO_INTERFACE_INCOMPATIBILITY} @samp{65})
@item @b{other-radio-interface-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_RADIO_INTERFACE_PROBLEM} @samp{66})
@item @b{encoding-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_ENCODING_PROBLEM} @samp{96})
@item @b{sms-origination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_ORIGINATION_DENIED} @samp{97})
@item @b{sms-termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{98})
@item @b{supplementary-service-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUPPLEMENTARY_SERVICE_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{99})
@item @b{sms-not-supported}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_NOT_SUPPORTED} @samp{100})
@item @b{missing-expected-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_EXPECTED_PARAMETER} @samp{102})
@item @b{missing-mandatory-parameter}
(@samp{MAP_T_MISSING_MANDATORY_PARAMETER} @samp{103})
@item @b{unrecognized-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNRECOGNIZED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{104})
@item @b{unexpected-parameter-value}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNEXPECTED_PARAMETER_VALUE} @samp{105})
@item @b{user-data-size-error}
(@samp{MAP_T_USER_DATA_SIZE_ERROR} @samp{106})
@item @b{other-general-problem}
(@samp{MAP_T_OTHER_GENERAL_PROBLEM} @samp{107})
@end table
@end vtable

@node SMS-Notification-Arg
@subsubsection SMS-Notification-Arg
@vindex SMS-Notification-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Notification-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{535}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab535,535,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Notification-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item sms-Access-Denied-Reason
@code{SMS-AccessDeniedReason ::= [PRIVATE 152] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.122.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_DENIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{postponed}
(@samp{MAP_T_POSTPONED} @samp{2})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{3})
@item @b{invalid}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID} @samp{4})
@end table
@item sms-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  Digits are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.124.
@end vtable

@node SMS-Notification-Res
@subsubsection SMS-Notification-Res
@vindex SMS-Notification-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Notification-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it defines no attributes of its own.

@node SMS-Request-Arg
@subsubsection SMS-Request-Arg
@vindex SMS-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{536}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab536,536,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item sms-Notification-Indicator
@code{SMS-NotificationIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 109] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.130.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{notify-when-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOTIFY_WHEN_AVAILABLE} @samp{1})
@item @b{do-not-notify-when-available}
(@samp{MAP_T_DO_NOT_NOTIFY_WHEN_AVAILABLE} @samp{1})
@end table
@item sms-Teleservice-Identifier
@code{SMS-TeleserviceIdentifier ::= [PRIVATE 116] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.137.
@end vtable

@node SMS-Request-Res
@subsubsection SMS-Request-Res
@vindex SMS-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{SMS-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{537}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab537,537,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{SMS-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item sms-Access-Denied-Reason
@code{SMS-AccessDeniedReason ::= [PRIVATE 152] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.122.  The octet may assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_DENIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{postponed}
(@samp{MAP_T_POSTPONED} @samp{2})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{3})
@item @b{invalid}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID} @samp{4})
@end table
@item sms-Address
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.  Digits are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.124.
@end vtable

@node Transfer-To-Number-Request-Arg
@subsubsection Transfer-To-Number-Request-Arg
@vindex Transfer-To-Number-Request-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Transfer-To-Number-Request-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{538}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab538,538,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Transfer-To-Number-Request-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item redirection-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-answer}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ANSWER} @samp{2})
@item @b{unconditional}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNCONDITIONAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{4})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unroutable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNROUTABLE} @samp{6})
A routing failure occured while attempting to complete the call.
@item @b{call-accepted}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ACCEPTED} @samp{7})
@item @b{call-refused}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_REFUSED} @samp{8})
@end table
@item system-My-Type-Code
(MSC)
@code{SystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 22] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{eds}
(@samp{MAP_T_EDS} @samp{1})
@item @b{astronet}
(@samp{MAP_T_ASTRONET} @samp{2})
@item @b{lucent}
(@samp{MAP_T_LUCENT} @samp{3})
@item @b{ericsson}
(@samp{MAP_T_ERICSSON} @samp{4})
@item @b{gte}
(@samp{MAP_T_GTE} @samp{5})
@item @b{motorola}
(@samp{MAP_T_MOTOROLA} @samp{6})
@item @b{nec}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEC} @samp{7})
@item @b{nortel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NORTEL} @samp{8})
@item @b{novatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_NOVATEL} @samp{9})
@item @b{lexsys}
(@samp{MAP_T_LEXSYS} @samp{10})
@item @b{digital}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIGITAL} @samp{11})
@item @b{inet}
(@samp{MAP_T_INET} @samp{12})
@item @b{bellcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_BELLCORE} @samp{13})
@item @b{alcatel}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALCATEL} @samp{14})
@item @b{tandem}
(@samp{MAP_T_TANDEM} @samp{15})
@item @b{qualcomm}
(@samp{MAP_T_QUALCOMM} @samp{16})
@item @b{aldiscon}
(@samp{MAP_T_ALDISCON} @samp{17})
@item @b{celcore}
(@samp{MAP_T_CELCORE} @samp{18})
@item @b{telos}
(@samp{MAP_T_TELOS} @samp{19})
@item @b{stanilite}
(@samp{MAP_T_STANILITE} @samp{20})
@item @b{coral}
(@samp{MAP_T_CORAL} @samp{21})
@item @b{synacom}
(@samp{MAP_T_SYNACOM} @samp{22})
@item @b{dsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_DSC} @samp{23})
@item @b{mci}
(@samp{MAP_T_MCI} @samp{24})
@item @b{newnet}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEWNET} @samp{25})
@item @b{sema}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEMA} @samp{26})
@item @b{lg}
(@samp{MAP_T_LG} @samp{27})
@item @b{cbis}
(@samp{MAP_T_CBIS} @samp{28})
@item @b{seimens}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIMENS} @samp{29})
@end table

@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item group-Information
@code{GroupInformation ::= [PRIVATE 163] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.69.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item mscid
(Originating)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item pilot-Billing-ID
@code{PilotBillingID ::= [PRIVATE 169] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.94.
@item pilot-Number
Contains the pilot directory number for a multileg call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item transaction-Capability
@code{TransactionCapability ::= [PRIVATE 123] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.160.
@end vtable

@node Transfer-To-Number-Request-Res
@subsubsection Transfer-To-Number-Request-Res
@vindex Transfer-To-Number-Request-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Transfer-To-Number-Request-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{539}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab539,539,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Transfer-To-Number-Request-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.

@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item action-Code
An octet string containing the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{continue-processing}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTINUE_PROCESSING} @samp{1})
@item @b{disconnect-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL} @samp{2})
@item @b{disconnect-call-leg}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_CALL_LEG} @samp{3})
@item @b{conference-calling-drop-last-party}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONFERENCE_CALLING_DROP_LAST_PARTY} @samp{4})
@item @b{bridge-call-legs-to-conference-call}
(@samp{MAP_T_BRIDGE_CALL_LEGS_TO_CONFERENCE_CALL} @samp{5})
@item @b{drop-call-leg-on-busy-or-routing-failure}
(@samp{MAP_T_DROP_CALL_LEG_ON_BUSY_OR_ROUTING_FAILURE} @samp{6})
@item @b{disconnect-all-call-legs}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISCONNECT_ALL_CALL_LEGS} @samp{7})
@end table
@item announcement-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List}. @xref{Announcement-List}.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item digits
(Carrier)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item group-Information
@code{GroupInformation ::= [PRIVATE 163] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.69.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item no-Answer-Time
@code{NoAnswerTime ::= [PRIVATE 96] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets encode the interval,
in seconds, to wait after alerting an MS or after seizing an outgoing trunk before no-answer
treatment is supplited.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.87.
@item redirecting-Number-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item termination-List
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Termination-List}. @xref{Termination-List}.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node Trunk-Test-Arg
@subsubsection Trunk-Test-Arg
@vindex Trunk-Test-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Trunk-Test-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{540}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab540,540,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trunk-Test-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@item seizure-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_SEIZURE_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{0})
@item @b{loop-back}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOOP_BACK} @samp{1})
The destination switch is to set up a loop around connection back to the source switch.
@end table
@end vtable

@node Trunk-Test-Res
@subsubsection Trunk-Test-Res
@vindex Trunk-Test-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Trunk-Test-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it defines not attributes of its own.

@node Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Arg
@subsubsection Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Arg
@vindex Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{541}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab541,541,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@end vtable

@node Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Res
@subsubsection Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Res
@vindex Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Trunk-Test-Disconnect-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it does not define any attributes of its own.

@node Unblocking-Arg
@subsubsection Unblocking-Arg
@vindex Unblocking-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Unblocking-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{542}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab542,542,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Unblocking-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item inter-MSC-Circuit-ID
@code{InterMSCCircuitID ::= [PRIVATE 6] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets consist of the
trunk group number and trunk member number in that order.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.72.
@end vtable

@node Unblocking-Res
@subsubsection Unblocking-Res
@vindex Unblocking-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Unblocking-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it does not define any attributes of its own.

@node Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Arg
@subsubsection Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Arg
@vindex Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{543}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab543,543,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item mscid
(HLR)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.
@item sender-Identification-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@end vtable

@node Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Res
@subsubsection Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Res
@vindex Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Unreliable-Roamer-Data-Directive-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}; it does not define any attributes of its own.

@node Unsolicited-Response-Arg
@subsubsection Unsolicited-Response-Arg
@vindex Unsolicited-Response-Arg

An instance of OM class
@b{Unsolicited-Response-Arg}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation request supplied as an argument
to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile application service operation indication.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Argument}, @i{ANSI-Service-Argument}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{544}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab544,544,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Unsolicited-Response-Arg}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item billing-ID
(Anchor)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.

@item digits
(Destination)
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item extended-MSC-ID
(Border MSC)
@code{ExtendedMSCID ::= [PRIVATE 53] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.64.
@item extended-System-My-Type-Code
(Border MSC)
@code{ExtendedSystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 54] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.65.
@item pc-SSN
(Border MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item system-Access-Type
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unspecified}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNSPECIFIED} @samp{1})
@item @b{flash-request}
(@samp{MAP_T_FLASH_REQUEST} @samp{1})
@item @b{autonomous-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUTONOMOUS_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-origination}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_ORIGINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-access}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ACCESS} @samp{1})
@item @b{power-down-registration}
(@samp{MAP_T_POWER_DOWN_REGISTRATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{sms-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_SMS_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{1})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Unsolicited-Response-Res
@subsubsection Unsolicited-Response-Res
@vindex Unsolicited-Response-Res

An instance of OM class
@b{Unsolicited-Response-Res}
represents the information of a mobile application service operation response supplied as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a mobile
application service operation confirmation.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it superclasses, @i{Object},
@i{Service-Result}, @i{ANSI-Service-Result}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{545}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab545,545,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Unsolicited-Response-Res}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item billing-ID
(Originating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-1
This attribute specifies the network-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Number-String-2
This attribute specifies the user-provided identification of the calling party.
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item calling-Party-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item dmh-Account-Code-Digits
Specifies the account code digits as dialed by a subscriber.  The account code is defined between
the subscriber and the home cellular service provider.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Alternate-Billing-Digits
Specifies a non-telephony billing number, such as a calling card number, credit card account number,
debit card account code, etc.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item dmh-Billing-Digits
Specifies the telephony billing number use for calls with special billing arrangements to identify
the party to be billed, such as third party billing, calling card, etc.  The billing number must be
a valid telphony number for billing the call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item extended-MSC-ID
(Originating MSC)
@code{ExtendedMSCID ::= [PRIVATE 53] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.64.
@item extended-System-My-Type-Code
(Originating MSC)
@code{ExtendedSystemMyTypeCode ::= [PRIVATE 54] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.65.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item msc-Identification-Number
(Originating-MSC)
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item pc-SSN
(Originating MSC)
Specifies the ANSI SS7 Point Code (PC) and Subsystem Number (SSN) of a particular cellular
functional entity.
@code{PC_SSN ::= [PRIVATE 32] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are encoded as follows:
@itemize
@item Octet 1
Encodes the system type and has one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{serving-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_SERVING_MSC} @samp{1})
@item @b{home-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_HOME_MSC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gateway-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GATEWAY_MSC} @samp{3})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{ac}
(@samp{MAP_T_AC} @samp{7})
@item @b{border-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_BORDER_MSC} @samp{8})
@item @b{originating-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_ORIGINATING_MSC} @samp{9})
@end table
A value of zero indicates that the system type is unspecified.
@item Octet 2
MTP Point Code member number.
@item Octet 3
MTP Point Code cluster number.
@item Octet 4
MTP Point Code network number.
@item Octet 5
SCCP Subsystem Number (SSN).
@end itemize
@item pilot-Billing-ID
@code{PilotBillingID ::= [PRIVATE 169] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}
Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.94.
@item pilot-Number
Contains the pilot directory number for a multileg call.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Number-String
@code{NumberString ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..20))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item redirecting-Subaddress
This attribute is of syntax @dfn{String(Subaddress)}.  @xref{String(Subaddress)}.
@item termination-Treatment
@code{TerminationTreatment ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.158.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_TERMINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{voice-mail-storage}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_STORAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{dialogue-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE_TERMINATION} @samp{4})
@end table
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@end vtable

@node ANSI MAP Parameters
@subsection ANSI MAP Parameters

@node Announcement-List
@subsubsection Announcement-List
@vindex Announcement-List

An instance of OM class @b{Announcement-List} represent the corresponding ANSI MAP parameter.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{446}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab446,446,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Announcement-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item announcement-Code
One or more instances of an announcement code, where:
@code{AnnouncementCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are coded according to ANSI41-D.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Code-Channel-Information
@subsubsection CDMA-Code-Channel-Information
@vindex CDMA-Code-Channel-Information

An instance of @b{CDMA-Code-Channel-Information} specifies the CDMA code channel information that is
used in the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{448}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab448,448,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Code-Channel-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Code-Channel
@code{CdmaCodeChannel ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.31.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Code-Channel-List
@subsubsection CDMA-Code-Channel-List
@vindex CDMA-Code-Channel-List

An instance of @b{CDMA-Code-Channel-List} specifies CDMA code channel information that is used in
the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{447}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab447,447,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Code-Channel-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Code-Channel-Information
One or more instances of OM class
@b{CDMA-Code-Channel-Information}.
@xref{CDMA-Code-Channel-Information}.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information
@subsubsection CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information
@vindex CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information

An instance of @b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information} specifies CDMA target cell information that is used
in the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{449}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab449,449,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Pilot-Strength
@code{CdmaPilotStrength ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.35.
@item cdma-Target-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaTargetOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.46.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Target-MAHO-List
@subsubsection CDMA-Target-MAHO-List
@vindex CDMA-Target-MAHO-List

An instance of @b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List} specifies CDMA target cell information that is used
in the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{450}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab450,450,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Target-MAHO-Information
One or more instances of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-MAHO-Information}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information
@subsubsection CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information
@vindex CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information

An instance of OM class @b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information} specifies CDMA target cell
information used in the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{451}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab451,451,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item cdma-Signal-Quality
@code{CdmaSignalQuality ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.2.39.
@item cdma-Target-One-Way-Delay
@code{CdmaTargetOneWayDelay ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI
41-D section 6.5.2.46.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node CDMA-Target-Measurement-List
@subsubsection CDMA-Target-Measurement-List
@vindex CDMA-Target-Measurement-List

An instance of OM class @b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List} specifies CDMA target cell
information used in the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{452}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab452,452,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item cdma-Target-Measurement-Information
One or more instances of OM class
@b{CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information}.
@xref{CDMA-Target-Measurement-Information}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Intersystem-Termination
@subsubsection Intersystem-Termination
@vindex Intersystem-Termination

An instance of OM class @b{Intersystem-Termination} specifies routing information for an MSC for
call terminated on another MSC.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{453}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab453,453,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Intersystem-Termination}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item destination-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mscid
(Serving)
@code{MSCID ::= [PRIVATE 21] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))}  Octets are encoded as specified in
ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.82.

@item access-Denied-Reason
An enumeration containing one of the following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{unassigned-directory-number}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNASSIGNED_DIRECTORY_NUMBER} @samp{1})
@item @b{inactive}
(@samp{MAP_T_INACTIVE} @samp{2})
@item @b{busy}
(@samp{MAP_T_BUSY} @samp{3})
@item @b{termination-denied}
(@samp{MAP_T_TERMINATION_DENIED} @samp{4})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{5})
@item @b{unavailable}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAVAILABLE} @samp{6})
@end table
@item billing-ID
(Terminating)
@code{BillingID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (7))}  Octets are encoded as specific in ANSI 41-D section
6.5.2.16.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item msc-Identification-Number
Indicates the identification number of an MSC sending a message.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Local-Termination
@subsubsection Local-Termination
@vindex Local-Termination

An instance of OM class @b{Local-Termination} specifies routing information for an MSC for calls
terminated on the same MSC.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{454}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab454,454,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Local-Termination}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item termination-Treatment
@code{TerminationTreatment ::= [PRIVATE 121] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.158.  The octet can assume values:
@table @asis
@item @b{ms-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_MS_TERMINATION} @samp{1})
@item @b{voice-mail-storage}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_STORAGE} @samp{2})
@item @b{voice-mail-retrieval}
(@samp{MAP_T_VOICE_MAIL_RETRIEVAL} @samp{3})
@item @b{dialogue-termination}
(@samp{MAP_T_DIALOGUE_TERMINATION} @samp{4})
@end table

@item alert-Code
@code{AlertCode ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2))}  Octets are coded as described in ANSI41-D.
@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item destination-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item mobile-Directory-Number
Contains the mobile station's directory number, which may be different from its mobile
identification number (MIN).
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item one-Time-Feature-Indicator
@code{OneTimeFeatureIndicator ::= [PRIVATE 97] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.88.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@item voice-Mailbox-PIN
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item voice-Mailbox-Number
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}. @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node PSTN-Termination
@subsubsection PSTN-Termination
@vindex PSTN-Termination

An instance of OM class @b{PSTN-Termination} specifies routing information for an MSC for calls
terminated on the PSTN.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{455}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab455,455,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{PSTN-Termination}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item destination-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.

@item carrier-Digits
This attribute specifies the preferred interexchange carrier for the call.  Only specified for
national usage.
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item electronic-Serial-Number
@code{ElectronicSerialNumber ::= [PRIVATE 9] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded
as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.63.
@item leg-Information
@code{LegInformation ::= [PRIVATE 144] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))}  Octets are encoded as
specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.75.
@item mobile-Identification-Number
Specifies the 10-digit representaiton of the mobile station's mobile identification number in BCD
form.  This attribute uses syntax @i{String(TBCD)}.  @xref{String(TBCD)}.
@code{MobileIdentificationNumber ::= [PRIVATE 8] IMPLICIT TBCD-STRING (SIZE (5))}  Octets are
encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.81.
@item routing-Digits
@code{NumberDigits ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (4..12))}  Octets are encoded as described in ANSI 41-D
section 6.5.3.2.
@item termination-Triggers
@code{TerminationTriggers ::= [PRIVATE 122] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))}
Octets are encoded as specified in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.159.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Target-Measurement-Information
@subsubsection Target-Measurement-Information
@vindex Target-Measurement-Information

An instance of OM class @b{Target-Measurement-Information} specifies target cell information used in
the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{456}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab456,456,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Target-Measurement-Information}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item target-Cell-ID
Specifies the ID of the target cell site to be used in this transaction.
@code{TargetCellID ::= [PRIVATE 3] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))} Octets are encoded with the
16-bit cell identifier, most significant byte first.  See ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.148.
@item signal-Quality
@code{SignalQuality ::= [PRIVATE 11] IMPLICIT INTEGER (0..255)}  Values are interpreted as specified
in ANSI 41-D section 6.5.2.121.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Target-Measurement-List
@subsubsection Target-Measurement-List
@vindex Target-Measurement-List

An instance of OM class @b{Target-Measurement-List} specifies target cell information used in
the handoff process.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{457}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab457,457,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Target-Measurement-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item target-Measurement-Information
One or more instances of OM class
@b{Target-Measurement-Information}.
@xref{Target-Measurement-Information}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Termination-List
@subsubsection Termination-List
@vindex Termination-List

An instance of OM class @b{Termination-List} provides an MSC with routing information, in the form
of one or more terminations.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{458}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab458,458,OM Attributes of OM Class @b{Termination-List}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one instance of one attribute shall be present in an
instance of this OM clas.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes;

@vtable @var
@item intersystem-Termination
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{Intersystem-Termination}.
@xref{Intersystem-Termination}.
@item local-Termination
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{Local-Termination}.
@xref{Local-Termination}.
@item pstn-Termination
This choice attribute is an instance of OM class
@b{PSTN-Termination}.
@xref{PSTN-Termination}.
@end vtable

@c ===================================================
@c ===================================================
@c ===================================================

@node Errors
@chapter Errors

This chapter defines the errors that can arise in the use of the interface and described the methods
used to report them.  There are basically two types of errors:

@itemize
@item Mobile Application Protocol Standards Errors
@item API Function Call Errors
@end itemize

Mobile Application Protocol Standards Errors are defined within a mobile application protocol
specification such as ANSI-41D and 3GPP TS 29.002.  This type of error is referred to as a
Service-Error.  Service-Errors may be created by applications programs as arguments on response
function calls and appear as results on request function calls with a status of success
@perr{[MAP_SUCCESS]}.  Service-Errors also appear as results of @i{Receive()} with a status of
success @perr{[MAP_SUCCESS]}.  A Service-Error is a private object containing details of the problem
that occured and including other relative information.

Service-Errors are reported using two OM classes that subclasses of the OM class Error:

@table @asis
@item @b{Service-Error} defined as part of the Common MAP Package as discussed in @ref{Common MAP Package}.
@item @b{Service-Reject} defined as part of the Common MAP Package as discussed in @ref{Common MAP Package}.
@end table

API function call errors are defined by this specification.  This type of error is referred to as a
@dfn{Function-Call-Error}, and it has sub-categories of @dfn{Communications-Error},
@dfn{Library-Error} and @dfn{System-Error}.

Function-Call-Errors are reported to the application program by means of a @b{Status} that is a
result of every function (it is the function result in the C language binding).  A function that
completes successfully returns the value @b{success} (@samp{((MP_status)0)} @perr{[MAP_SUCCESS]}),
while one that is not successful returns an error.  The error is an integer.  In a few cases,
additional function calls can be used to gain additional error information as discussed below.

The error constants @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]}, @perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]} and
@perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]} can be returned by all functions except @i{Error-Message()} and
@i{Initialize()}:

@itemize
@item @perr{[MAP_NO_WORKSPACE]}
should be returned if @i{Initialize()} is not invoked before calling any other function.
@item @perr{[MAP_INVALID_SESSION]}
should be returned if an invalid session object is passed into the function.
@item @perr{[MAP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES]}
should be returned if the function is unable to complete due to resource problems, for example, lack
of memory.
@end itemize

The function call @i{Get-Last-Error()} may be used to report an additional integer value when the
error constant is @perr{[MAP_E_COMMUNICATIONS_PROBLEM]}, @perr{[MAP_E_BROKEN_SESSION]} or
@perr{[MAP_E_SYSTEM]}.

The function call @i{Validate-object()} (@pxref{Validate-object}) may be used to report an
additional private object containing details related to an error constant of
@perr{[MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT]}.

The situation is more complicated for asyncrhonous operations, because these can fail at two stages:
either before the remote operation is started, or during it.  The first type is reported immediately
in the status of the invoking function, while the second is returned as the @b{Operation-Status}
result of a later call to @i{Receive()} (@pxref{Receive}).

Errors are classified into several OM subclasses of the OM class @var{Error}.

This specification defines the subclasses @b{Service-Error} and @b{Service-Reject} in the Common MAP
package to represent errors of Common MAP service.

The Standards specify different kinds of service errors:

@itemize ---
@item MAP Service User Errors
@item MAP Service Provider Errors
@item TC User Errors
@item TC Provider Errors
@item NS Provider Errors
@end itemize

@itemize
@item MAP user service errors:
@item MAP provider service errors:
@table @b
@item duplicated-invoke-id
@item not-supported-service
@item mistyped-parameter
@item resource-limitation
@item initiating-release
@end table
@item TC provider service errors:
@item Network Service errors:
@end itemize

The OM classes defined in this chapter are part of the GSM MAP package introduced in @ref{GSM MAP
Package}.

To allow automatic association management and automatic dialog handling (that is, transparent
association and dialog establishment and release), the interface may not communicate with a program
when @i{Bind()} is called, but may defer it until a mobile application service operation is
requested.  Because of this flexibility, all functions can return the same errors as @i{Bind()}.
For example, a @i{Service-req()} operation may return a version incompatibility error because the
association was deferred until access was actually needed.

@menu
* OM Class Hierarchy: Errors OM Class Hierarchy.
* GSM MAP Errors::
* GSM MAP SM Errors::
@end menu

@node Errors OM Class Hierarchy
@section OM Class Hierarchy

@menu
* Bad-Argument::
* Communications-Error::
* Error::
* Library Error::
* Service Error::
* System Error::
@end menu

@node Bad-Argument
@subsection Bad-Argument
@vindex Bad-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{Bad-Argument} reports additional information for locating the first
detected bad OM sub-object and bad OM attribute.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{66}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab066,66,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Bad-Argument}}

The OM attributes of a @b{Bad-Argument} are:

@vtable @var
@item OM-Subobject
The handle to the first detected bad OM-Suboject in the tree.
@item OM-Class
The Object-Identifier of the OM-Suboject.  This information is redundant but convenient.
@item OM-Attribute
The attribute name of the first OM-attribute of the OM-Subobject, or of the first missing mandatory
OM-attribute.
@item OM-Index
The index of the first bad occurence of this OM-attribute (starting from zero).  Takes the value
zero in the case of a missing mandatory OM attribute.
@item OM-Bad-Argument
The additional error.  Its value is one of:
@table @b
@item missing-attribute
The attribute is required, but is missing.
@item invalid-attribute
The attribute is invalid.
@item exclusive-attribute
This attribute is exclusive with a previous one.
@item not-multi-valued
This attribute is not multi-valued, but more than one value was found.
@item bad-syntax
This attribute has a bad syntax.
@item bad-value
This attribute has a bad value.
@end table
@end vtable

@node Communications-Error
@subsection Communications-Error
@vindex Communications-Error

Communications errors report an error occuring in the underlying communications service supporting
the Mobile Application Services.  Communications errors include those arising from TCAP component
handling, dialogue handling, transaction handling, and network services part communications.  The
following error constants are considered @b{Communiections-Error} values:

@table @b
@item communications-problem
A communications problem with the peer entity involved in the current operation occurred.  No more
results will be returned for the outstanding operation.  This problem may be temporary.

If a synchronous call has returned a communications problem, additional information may be received
by issuing a @i{Receive()} on the related session.  For example, syncrhonous calls may fail because
a dialog  session has been aborted by the remote peer.  The abort indication would be received via
@i{Receive()}.

The OM attribute @var{parameter} may be present with additional information.
@item broken-session
A fatal access problem to the Mobile Application Service provider has occurred.  The invoked session
is abruptly terminated (no longer usable).  No more results will be returned for the outstanding
operation.  Further usage of this session would return the @dfn{Library-Error} @b{session-terminated}.

The OM attribute @var{parameter} may be present with additional information.
@end table

An additional integer value may be returned if the application issues the @i{Get-Last-Error()} call.
The value of the integer is MAS provider specific.  It is not possible to stanardize the values
since there is no standard for the MAS provider.  However, most MAS providers provide some error
value when a communications error occurs.

An applications program might use this to check whether the MAS provider has had a fatal error, some
temporary problem, or whether a request as made for something that this MAS provider does not
support.  Most MAS providers offer a range of error codes that define specific error conditions of
this nature.

@node Error
@subsection Error
@vindex Error

The OM class @b{Error} comprises the parameters common to all errors.

It is an abstract OM class that has the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{67}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab067,67,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Error}}

Details of errors are returned in an instance of a subclass of this OM class.  Each subclass
represents a particular kind of error, and is one of:

@itemize
@item @b{Service-Error}
@item @b{Service-Reject}
@end itemize

The Om attributes of @var{Error} are:

@vtable @var 
@item problem
Give the details of the error.  A number of possible values are defined, but implementations may
define additional values.  Implementations will not return other values for error conditions
described in this chapter.  Each of the standard values is listed and is described under the
relative error OM class.
@item parameter
This OM attrribute supplies additional information accompanying the service rror notification.  Its
OM value syntax, denoted by @dfn{any}, that is allowed for this OM attribute is determined by the
paritcular value of the OM attribute value @var{problem}.

Some error notifications do not define additional information.  In this case, the OM attribute
@var{parameter} may be absent.
@end vtable

@node Library Error
@subsection Library Error

Library errors report an error detected by the interface function library.

Each function has several possible errors that can be detected by the library itself, and which are
returned directly by the subroutine.  These errors occur when the library itself is incapable of
performing an action, submitting a service request, or parsing a response from the system management
service.

The following error constants are considered Library-Error values that identify the particuar
library error that has occurred.  The @b{ERRORS} section of each function description lists just
those which that function can return.

The possible cause of the failure and their associated information are:

@table @b
@item bad-address (@code{MAP_E_BAD_ADDRESS})
An invalid address was supplied.
@item bad-argument (@code{MAP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT})
A bad argument was supplied.  The application program may use the @i{Validate-object()} function
call to receive more detailed information.
@item bad-class (@code{MAP_E_BAD_CLASS})
The OM class of an argument or a result or a linked reply or an error is not supported for this
operation.
@item bad-context (@code{MAP_E_BAD_CONTEXT})
An invalid context argument was supplied.
@item bad-error (@code{MAP_E_BAD_ERROR})
A bad service-error-was supplied.
@item bad-linked-reply (@code{MAP_E_BAD_LINKED_REPLY})
A band linked-reply was supplied.
@item bad-procedural-user (@code{MAP_E_BAD_PROCEDURAL_USER})
The procedural use of linked-reply is not compliant with the standards, or the permitted service
primitive chaining is violated.
@item bad-result (@code{MAP_E_BAD_RESULT})
A bad result was supplied.
@item bad-session (@code{MAP_E_BAD_SESSION})
An invalid session was supplied.
@item bad-title (@code{MAP_E_BAD_TITLE})
An invalid title was supplied.
@item bad-workspace (@code{MAP_E_BAD_WORKSPACE})
An invalid workspace argument was supplied.
@item miscellaneous (@code{MAP_E_MISCELLANEOUS})
A miscellaneous error occured in interacting with the system management service.  This error will be
returned if the interface cannot clear a transient system error by retryning the affected system
call.
@item no-such-operation (@code{MAP_E_NO_SUCH_OPERATION})
The library has no knowledge of the designated operation or notification in progress or that the
response mismatches the invoked operation.
@item not-supported (@code{MAP_E_NOT_SUPPORTED})
An attempt was made to use optional functionality that is not available in this implementation or
that was not agreed for use on that session.
@item reply-limit-exceeded (@code{MAP_E_REPLY_LIMIT_EXCEEDED})
The maximum number of linked replies about which the requested service should return information is
reached.
@item session-terminated (@code{MAP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED})
The session is terminated and thus results of outstanding operations are no longer available.
@item time-limit-exceeded (@code{MAP_E_TIME_LIMIT_EXCEEDED})
The maximum elapsed time within which the requested service should be provided is reached.
@item too-many-operations (@code{MAP_E_TOO_MAY_OPERATIONS})
No more management operations can be performed until at least one asynchronous operation has
completed.
@item too-many-sessions (@code{MAP_E_TOO_MANY_SESSIONS})
No more mobile application sessions can be started.
@end table

@node Service Error
@subsection Service Error

The OM classes @b{Service-Error} and @b{Service-Reject} report management errors related tot
he provision of service.

This specification defines OM classes for reporting GSM service errors, each of which has the OM
attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, @i{Error}, and no other attributes.

@table @b
@item Service-Error
Corresponding errors of the MAP service.
@item Service-Reject
Corresponding errors of the TCAP service.
@end table

These OM classes are used to report errors in compliance with the respective standard.

@node System Error
@subsection System Error

System erorrs report an error occurring in the underlying operating system.

The error constant @perr{[MAP_E_SYSTEM_ERROR]} is the only value in this Function-Call-Error
cagtegory.  An additional integer value may be returned if the application issues the
@i{Get-Last-Error()} function call.  Its value is the same as that of @manref{errno(3)} defined in
the C language.  The standard names of system errors are defined in the X/Open Portability Guide
(see reference @b{XPG}), and additonal names maybe implementation-defined.

If a transient error occurs (@perr{[EINTR]} or @perr{[EAGAIN]}), implementations will retry the
affected operation and will not report these errors.  If such an error persists they may report the
Library error (miscellaneous) or an implementation-defined library error.

@node GSM MAP Errors
@section GSM MAP Errors

@menu
* Reject Errors::
* Generic Errors::
* Identification and Numbering Errors::
* Subscription Errors::
* Handover Errors::
* Operation and Maintenance Errors::
* Call Handling Errors::
* Any Time Interrogation Errors::
* Any Time Information Handling Errors::
* Supplementary Service Errors::
* Short Message Service Errors::
* Group Call Errors::
* Location Service Errors::
* Mobility Management Errors::
* Secure Transport Errors::
@end menu

@node Reject Errors
@subsection Reject Errors

The GSM MAP package defines the following reject @i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter
syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{initiating-release}
(@samp{MAP_E_INITIATING_RELEASE})
The receiving entity has started the release procedure.
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@end table

@node Generic Errors
@subsection Generic Errors

@menu
* Data-Missing-Param::
* Extensible-System-Failure-Param::
* Facility-Not-Sup-Param::
* Incompatible-Terminal-Param::
* Resource-Limitation-Param::
* System-Failure-Param::
* Unexpected-Data-Param::
@end menu

The GSM MAP package defines the following generic @i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter
syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{system-failure(34)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SYSTEM_FAILURE})
A task cannot be performed because of a problem in another entity.  The type of entity or
network resource may be indicated by use of the network resource parameter or additional network
resource parameter.
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{System-Failure-Param} or an instance of OM class @b{Extensible-System-Failure-Param} depending on
the protocol version.

@item @b{data-missing(35)}
(@samp{MAP_E_DATA_MISSING})
An optional parameter required by the context is missing.
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Data-Missing-Param}.

@item @b{unexpected-data-value(36)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNEXPECTED_DATA_VALUE})
The data type is formally correct but its value or presence is unexpected in the current context.
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Unexpected-Data-Param}.

@item @b{facility-not-supported(21)}
(@samp{MAP_E_FACILITY_NOT_SUPPORTED})
The requested facility is not supported by the PLMN with detailed reasons as follows:
@itemize ---
@item Shape of location estimate not supported;
@item Needed LCS capability not supported in serving node.
@end itemize
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Facility-Not-Sup-Param}.

@item @b{incompatible-terminal(28)}
(@samp{MAP_E_INCOMPATIBLE_TERMINAL})
The requested facility is not supported by the terminal.
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Incompatible-Terminal-Param}.

@item @b{resource-limitation(51)}
(@samp{MAP_E_RESOURCE_LIMITATION})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Resource-Limitation-Param}.

@end table

@node Data-Missing-Param
@subsubsection Data-Missing-Param
@vindex Data-Missing-Param

An instance of the OM class @b{Data-Missing-Param} provides an object for use in the @var{parameter}
attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{data-missing}.  An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses,
@i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{70}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab070,70,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Data-Missing-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Extensible-System-Failure-Param
@subsubsection Extensible-System-Failure-Param
@vindex Extensible-System-Failure-Param

An instance of the OM class @b{Extensible-System-Failure-Param} provides an object for use in the
@var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{system-failure}.  An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses,
@i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{69}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab069,69,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Extensible-System-Failure-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item network-Resource
An enumeration identifying the failed network resource.  The enumeration can assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{plmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN} @samp{0})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{1})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{2})
@item @b{pvlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_PVLR} @samp{3})
@item @b{controlling-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTROLLING_MSC} @samp{4})
@item @b{vmsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_VMSC} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{rss}
(@samp{MAP_T_RSS} @samp{7})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item additional-Network-Resource
An enumeration identifying the additional failed network resource.  The enumeration can assume the
following values:
@table @asis
@item @b{sgsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_SGSN} @samp{0})
@item @b{ggsn}
(@samp{MAP_T_GGSN} @samp{1})
@item @b{gmlc}
(@samp{MAP_T_GMLC} @samp{2})
@item @b{gsm-scf}
(@samp{MAP_T_GSM_SCF} @samp{3})
@item @b{nplr}
(@samp{MAP_T_NPLR} @samp{4})
@item @b{auc}
(@samp{MAP_T_AUC} @samp{5})
@end table
@end vtable

@node Facility-Not-Sup-Param
@subsubsection Facility-Not-Sup-Param
@vindex Facility-Not-Sup-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Facility-Not-Sup-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{facility-not-supported}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{72}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab072,72,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Facility-Not-Sup-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item shape-Of-Location-Estimated-Not-Supported
@item needed-Lcs-Capability-Not-Supported-In-Serving-Node
@end vtable

@node Incompatible-Terminal-Param
@subsubsection Incompatible-Terminal-Param
@vindex Incompatible-Terminal-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Incompatible-Terminal-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{incompatible-terminal}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{73}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab073,73,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Incompatible-Terminal-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Resource-Limitation-Param
@subsubsection Resource-Limitation-Param
@vindex Resource-Limitation-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Resource-Limitation-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{resource-limitation}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{74}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab074,74,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Resource-Limitation-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node System-Failure-Param
@subsubsection System-Failure-Param
@vindex System-Failure-Param

An instance of the OM class @b{System-Failure-Param} provides an object for use in the
@var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{system-failure}.  An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses,
@i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{68}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab068,68,OM Attributes of OM class @b{System-Failure-Param}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attribute must appear in an instance.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item network-Resource
An enumeration identifying the failed network resource.  The enumeration can assume the following
values:
@table @asis
@item @b{plmn}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN} @samp{0})
@item @b{hlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_HLR} @samp{1})
@item @b{vlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_VLR} @samp{2})
@item @b{pvlr}
(@samp{MAP_T_PVLR} @samp{3})
@item @b{controlling-msc}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONTROLLING_MSC} @samp{4})
@item @b{vmsc}
(@samp{MAP_T_VMSC} @samp{5})
@item @b{eir}
(@samp{MAP_T_EIR} @samp{6})
@item @b{rss}
(@samp{MAP_T_RSS} @samp{7})
@end table
@item extensible-System-Failure-Param
An object of class @b{Extensible-System-Failure-Param}.
@end vtable

@node Unexpected-Data-Param
@subsubsection Unexpected-Data-Param
@vindex Unexpected-Data-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unexpected-Data-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unexpected-data}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{71}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab071,71,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unexpected-Data-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Identification and Numbering Errors
@subsection Identification and Numbering Errors

@menu
* Unknown-Subscriber-Param::
* Number-Change-Param::
* Unidentified-Sub-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Identification and Numbering
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{unknown-subscriber(1)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Unknown-Subscriber-Param}.
@item @b{number-changed(44)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NUMBER_CHANGED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Number-Change-Param}.
@item @b{unknown-msc(3)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_MSC})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{unidentified-subscriber(5)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNIDENTIFIED_SUBSCRIBER})
@b{Unidentified-Sub-Param}
@item @b{unknown-equipment(7)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_EQUIPMENT})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@end table

@node Unknown-Subscriber-Param
@subsubsection Unknown-Subscriber-Param
@vindex Unknown-Subscriber-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unknown-Subscriber-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unknown-subscriber}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{75}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab075,75,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unknown-Subscriber-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item unknown-Subscriber-Diagnostic
@table @asis
@item @b{imsi-unknown}
(@samp{MAP_T_IMSI_UNKNOWN} @samp{0})
@item @b{gprs-subscription-unknown}
(@samp{MAP_T_GPRS_SUBSCRIPTION_UNKNOWN} @samp{1})
@item @b{npdb-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_NPDB_MISMATCH} @samp{2})
@end table
@end table

@node Number-Change-Param
@subsubsection Number-Change-Param
@vindex Number-Change-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Number-Change-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{number-change}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{76}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab076,76,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Number-Change-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Unidentified-Sub-Param
@subsubsection Unidentified-Sub-Param
@vindex Unidentified-Sub-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unidentified-Sub-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unidentified-subscriber}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{77}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab077,77,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unidentified-Sub-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Subscription Errors
@subsection Subscription Errors

@menu
* Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param::
* Illegal-Subscriber-Param::
* Illegal-Equipment-Param::
* Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param::
* Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Subscription @i{GSM-Service-Error} problem
values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{roaming-not-allowed(8)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ROAMING_NOT_ALLOWED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param}.
@item @b{illegal-subscriber(9)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ILLEGAL_SUBSCRIBER})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Illegal-Subscriber-Param}.
@item @b{illegal-equipment(12)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ILLEGAL_EQUIPMENT})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Illegal-Equipment-Param}.
@item @b{bearer-service-not-provisioned(10)}
(@samp{MAP_E_BEARER_SERVICE_NOT_PROVISIONED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param}.
@item @b{teleservice-not-provisioned(11)}
(@samp{MAP_E_TELESERVICE_NOT_PROVISIONED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param}.
@end table

@node Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param
@subsubsection Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param
@vindex Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{roaming-not-allowed}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{78}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab078,78,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Roaming-Not-Allowed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item roaming-Not-Allowed-Cause
@table @asis
@item @b{plmn-roaming-not-allowed}
(@samp{MAP_T_PLMN_ROAMING_NOT_ALLOWED} @samp{0})
@item @b{operator-determined-barring}
(@samp{MAP_T_OPERATOR_DETERMINED_BARRING} @samp{3})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Illegal-Subscriber-Param
@subsubsection Illegal-Subscriber-Param
@vindex Illegal-Subscriber-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Illegal-Subscriber-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{illegal-subscriber}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{79}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab079,79,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Illegal-Subscriber-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Illegal-Equipment-Param
@subsubsection Illegal-Equipment-Param
@vindex Illegal-Equipment-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Illegal-Equipment-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{illegal-equipment}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{80}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab080,80,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Illegal-Equipment-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param
@subsubsection Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param
@vindex Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{bearer-service-not-provisioned}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{85}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab085,85,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Bearer-Serv-Not-Prov-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param
@subsubsection Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param
@vindex Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{teleservice-not-provisioned}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{81}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab081,81,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Teleserv-Not-Prov-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Handover Errors
@subsection Handover Errors

@menu
* Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Handover @i{GSM-Service-Error} problem
values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{no-handover-number-available(25)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_HANDOVER_NUMBER_AVAILABLE})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{subsequent-handover-failure(26)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SUBSEQUENT_HANDOVER_FAILURE})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{target-cell-outside-group-call-area(42)}
(@samp{MAP_E_TARGET_CELL_OUTSIDE_GROUP_CALL_AREA})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param}.
@end table

@node Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param
@subsubsection Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param
@vindex Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{target-cell-outside-group-call-area}.
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{82}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab082,82,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Target-Cell-Outside-GCA-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Operation and Maintenance Errors
@subsection Operation and Maintenance Errors

@menu
* Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Operation and Maintenance
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{tracing-buffer-full(40)}
(@samp{MAP_E_TRACING_BUFFER_FULL})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param}.
@end table

@node Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param
@subsubsection Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param
@vindex Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{tracing-buffer-full}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{83}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab083,83,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Tracing-Buffer-Full-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Call Handling Errors
@subsection Call Handling Errors

@menu
* No-Roaming-Nb-Param::
* Absent-Subscriber-Param::
* Busy-Subscriber-Param::
* No-Subscriber-Reply-Param::
* Call-Barred-Param::
* Extensible-Call-Barred-Param::
* Forwarding-Violation-Param::
* Forwarding-Failed-Param::
* CUG-Reject-Param::
* OR-Not-Allowed-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Call Handling 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{no-roaming-number-available(39)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_ROAMING_NUMBER_AVAILABLE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{No-Roaming-Nb-Param}.
@item @b{absent-subscriber(27)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Absent-Subscriber-Param}.
@item @b{busy-subscriber(45)}
(@samp{MAP_E_BUSY_SUBSCRIBER})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Busy-Subscriber-Param}.
@item @b{no-subscriber-reply(46)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_SUBSCRIBER_REPLY})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{No-Subscriber-Reply-Param}.
@item @b{call-barred(13)}
(@samp{MAP_E_CALL_BARRED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Call-Barred-Param} or @b{Extensible-Call-Barred-Param} depending on the protocol version.
@item @b{forwarding-violation(14)}
(@samp{MAP_E_FORWARDING_VIOLATION})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Forwarding-Violation-Param}.
@item @b{forwarding-failed(47)}
(@samp{MAP_E_FORWARDING_FAILED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Forwarding-Failed-Param}.
@item @b{cug-reject(15)}
(@samp{MAP_E_CUG_REJECT})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{CUG-Reject-Param}.
@item @b{or-nor-allowed(48)}
(@samp{MAP_E_OR_NOT_ALLOWED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{OR-Not-Allowed-Param}.
@end table

@node No-Roaming-Nb-Param
@subsubsection No-Roaming-Nb-Param
@vindex No-Roaming-Nb-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{No-Roaming-Nb-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{no-roaming-number-available}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{84}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab084,84,OM Attributes of OM class @b{No-Roaming-Nb-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Absent-Subscriber-Param
@subsubsection Absent-Subscriber-Param
@vindex Absent-Subscriber-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Absent-Subscriber-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{absent-subscriber}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{86}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab086,86,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Absent-Subscriber-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item absent-Subscriber-Reason
@table @asis
@item @b{imsi-detach}
(@samp{MAP_T_IMSI_DETACH} @samp{0})
@item @b{restricted-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_RESTRICTED_AREA} @samp{1})
@item @b{no-page-response}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_PAGE_RESPONSE} @samp{2})
@item @b{purged-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_PURGED_MS} @samp{3})
@end table
@end table

@node Busy-Subscriber-Param
@subsubsection Busy-Subscriber-Param
@vindex Busy-Subscriber-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Busy-Subscriber-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{busy-subscriber}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{87}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab087,87,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Busy-Subscriber-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item ccbs-Possible
@item ccbs-Busy
@end table

@node No-Subscriber-Reply-Param
@subsubsection No-Subscriber-Reply-Param
@vindex No-Subscriber-Reply-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{No-Subscriber-Reply-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{no-subscriber-reply}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{88}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab088,88,OM Attributes of OM class @b{No-Subscriber-Reply-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Call-Barred-Param
@subsubsection Call-Barred-Param
@vindex Call-Barred-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Call-Barred-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{call-barred}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{89}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab089,89,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Call-Barred-Param}}

This OM class represents a choice and exactly one attribute must appear in an instance.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Barring-Cause
@table @asis
@item @b{barring-service-active}
(@samp{MAP_T_BARRING_SERVICE_ACTIVE} @samp{0})
@item @b{operator-barring}
(@samp{MAP_T_OPERATOR_BARRING} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extensible-Call-Barred-Param
An object of class @b{Extensible-Call-Barred-Param}.
@end vtable

@node Extensible-Call-Barred-Param
@subsubsection Extensible-Call-Barred-Param
@vindex Extensible-Call-Barred-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Extensible-Call-Barred-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{call-barred}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{90}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab090,90,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Extensible-Call-Barred-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item call-Barring-Cause
@table @asis
@item @b{barring-service-active}
(@samp{MAP_T_BARRING_SERVICE_ACTIVE} @samp{0})
@item @b{operator-barring}
(@samp{MAP_T_OPERATOR_BARRING} @samp{1})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item unauthorized-Message-Originator
@end vtable

@node Forwarding-Violation-Param
@subsubsection Forwarding-Violation-Param
@vindex Forwarding-Violation-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Forwarding-Violation-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{forwarding-violation}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{91}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab091,91,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Forwarding-Violation-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Forwarding-Failed-Param
@subsubsection Forwarding-Failed-Param
@vindex Forwarding-Failed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Forwarding-Failed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{forwarding-failed}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{92}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab092,92,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Forwarding-Failed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node CUG-Reject-Param
@subsubsection CUG-Reject-Param
@vindex CUG-Reject-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{CUG-Reject-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{cug-reject}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{93}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab093,93,OM Attributes of OM class @b{CUG-Reject-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item cug-Reject-Cause
@table @asis
@item @b{incoming-calls-barred-withing-cug}
(@samp{MAP_T_INCOMING_CALLS_BARRED_WITHING_CUG} @samp{0})
@item @b{subscriber-not-member-of-cug}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUBSCRIBER_NOT_MEMBER_OF_CUG} @samp{1})
@item @b{requested-basic-service-violates-cug-constraints}
(@samp{MAP_T_REQUESTED_BASIC_SERVICE_VIOLATES_CUG_CONSTRAINTS} @samp{5})
@item @b{called-party-ss-interaction-violation}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALLED_PARTY_SS_INTERACTION_VIOLATION} @samp{7})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node OR-Not-Allowed-Param
@subsubsection OR-Not-Allowed-Param
@vindex OR-Not-Allowed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{OR-Not-Allowed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{or-not-allowed}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{94}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab094,94,OM Attributes of OM class @b{OR-Not-Allowed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Any Time Interrogation Errors
@subsection Any Time Interrogation Errors

@menu
* ATI-Not-Allowed-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Any Time Interrogation 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{ati-not-allowed(49)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ATI_NOT_ALLOWED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{ATI-Not-Allowed-Param}.
@end table

@node ATI-Not-Allowed-Param
@subsubsection ATI-Not-Allowed-Param
@vindex ATI-Not-Allowed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{ATI-Not-Allowed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{ati-not-allowed}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{95}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab095,95,OM Attributes of OM class @b{ATI-Not-Allowed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Any Time Information Handling Errors
@subsection Any Time Information Handling Errors

@menu
* ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param::
* ATM-Not-Allowed-Param::
* Information-Not-Available-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Any Time Information Handling 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{atsi-not-allowed(60)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ATSI_NOT_ALLOWED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param}.
@item @b{atm-not-allowed(61)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ATM_NOT_ALLOWED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{ATM-Not-Allowed-Param}.
@item @b{information-not-available(62)}
(@samp{MAP_E_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Information-Not-Available-Param}.
@end table

@node ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param
@subsubsection ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param
@vindex ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{atsi-not-allowed}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{96}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab096,96,OM Attributes of OM class @b{ATSI-Not-Allowed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@node ATM-Not-Allowed-Param
@subsubsection ATM-Not-Allowed-Param
@vindex ATM-Not-Allowed-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{ATM-Not-Allowed-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{atm-not-allowed}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{97}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab097,97,OM Attributes of OM class @b{ATM-Not-Allowed-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Information-Not-Available-Param
@subsubsection Information-Not-Available-Param
@vindex Information-Not-Available-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Information-Not-Available-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{information-not-available}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{98}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab098,98,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Information-Not-Available-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node Supplementary Service Errors
@subsection Supplementary Service Errors

@menu
* Illegal-SS-Operation-Param::
* SS-Not-Available-Param::
* SS-Subscription-Violation-Param::
* SS-Incompatibility-Param::
* PW-Registration-Failure-Cause::
* Short-Term-Denial-Param::
* Long-Term-Denial-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Supplementary Service 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{illegal-ss-operation(16)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ILLEGAL_SS_OPERATION})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Illegal-SS-Operation-Param}.
@item @b{ss-error-status(17)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SS_ERROR_STATUS})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{SS-Status}.
@item @b{ss-not-available(18)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SS_NOT_AVAILABLE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{SS-Not-Available-Param}.
@item @b{ss-subscription-violation(19)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SS_SUBSCRIPTION_VIOLATION})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{SS-Subscription-Violation-Param}.
@item @b{ss-incompatibility(20)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SS_INCOMPATIBILITY})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{SS-Incompatibility-Param}.
@item @b{unknown-alphabet(71)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_ALPHABET})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{ussd-busy(72)}
(@samp{MAP_E_USSD_BUSY})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{pw-registration-failure(37)}
(@samp{MAP_E_PW_REGISTRATION_FAILURE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{PW-Registration-Failure-Cause}.
@item @b{negative-pw-check(38)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NEGATIVE_PW_CHECK})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{number-of-pw-attempts-violation(43)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NUMBER_OF_PW_ATTEMPTS_VIOLATION})
There is no error @var{parameter} associated with this error.
@item @b{short-term-denial(29)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SHORT_TERM_DENIAL})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Short-Term-Denial-Param}.
@item @b{long-term-denial(30)}
(@samp{MAP_E_LONG_TERM_DENIAL})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Long-Term-Denial-Param}.
@end table

@node Illegal-SS-Operation-Param
@subsubsection Illegal-SS-Operation-Param
@vindex Illegal-SS-Operation-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Illegal-SS-Operation-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{illegal-ss-operation}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{99}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab099,99,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Illegal-SS-Operation-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node SS-Not-Available-Param
@subsubsection SS-Not-Available-Param
@vindex SS-Not-Available-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{SS-Not-Available-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{ss-not-available}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{100}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab100,100,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SS-Not-Available-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node SS-Subscription-Violation-Param
@subsubsection SS-Subscription-Violation-Param
@vindex SS-Subscription-Violation-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{SS-Subscription-Violation-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{ss-subscription-violation}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{101}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab101,101,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SS-Subscription-Violation-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end table

@node SS-Incompatibility-Param
@subsubsection SS-Incompatibility-Param
@vindex SS-Incompatibility-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{SS-Incompatibility-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{ss-incompatibility}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{103}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab103,103,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SS-Incompatibility-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item ss-Code (SS-Code = String(Octet) (SIZE(1)))
@item basic-Service
@item ss-Status (SS-Status = String(Octet) (SIZE(1)))
@end table

@node PW-Registration-Failure-Cause
@subsubsection PW-Registration-Failure-Cause
@vindex PW-Registration-Failure-Cause

@table @dfn
@item Enum(PW-Registration-Failure-Cause)
@table @asis
@item @b{undetermined}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNDETERMINED} @samp{0})
@item @b{invalid-format}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_FORMAT} @samp{1})
@item @b{new-passwords-mismatch}
(@samp{MAP_T_NEW_PASSWORDS_MISMATCH} @samp{2})
@end table
@end table

@node Short-Term-Denial-Param
@subsubsection Short-Term-Denial-Param
@vindex Short-Term-Denial-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Short-Term-Denial-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{short-term-denial}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{104}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab104,104,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Short-Term-Denial-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension
@end table

@node Long-Term-Denial-Param
@subsubsection Long-Term-Denial-Param
@vindex Long-Term-Denial-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Long-Term-Denial-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{long-term-denial}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{105}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab105,105,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Long-Term-Denial-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@table @dfn
@item extension
@end table


@node Short Message Service Errors
@subsection Short Message Service Errors

@menu
* Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param::
* Message-Wait-List-Full-Param::
* SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause::
* Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param::
@end menu

The GSM MAP Short Message service package defines the following Short Message Service
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{subscriber-busy-for-mt-sms(31)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SUBSCRIBER_BUSY_FOR_MT_SMS})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param}, defined below.
@item @b{sm-delivery-failure(32)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SM_DELIVERY_FAILURE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause}, defined below.
@item @b{message-waiting-list-full(33)}
(@samp{MAP_E_MESSAGE_WAITING_LIST_FULL})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Message-Wait-List-Full-Param}, defined below.
@item @b{absent-subscriber-sm(6)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER_SM})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param}, defined below.
@end table

The GSM MAP Short Message service package also makes use of the following @i{GSM-Service-Error}
problem values and parameters:

@itemize ---
@item @b{data-missing(35)}
(@samp{MAP_E_DATA_MISSING}) from Generic Errors.
@item @b{facility-not-supported(21)}
(@samp{MAP_E_FACILITY_NOT_SUPPORTED}) from Generic Errors.
@item @b{system-failure(34)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SYSTEM_FAILURE}) from Generic Errors.
@item @b{unexpected-data-value(36)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNEXPECTED_DATA_VALUE}) from Generic Errors.
@item @b{call-barred(13)}
(@samp{MAP_E_CALL_BARRED}) from Call Handling Errors.
@item @b{illegal-subscriber(9)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ILLEGAL_SUBSCRIBER}) from Subscription Errors.
@item @b{illegal-equipment(12)}
(@samp{MAP_E_ILLEGAL_EQUIPMENT}) from Subscription Errors.
@item @b{teleservice-not-provisioned(12)}
(@samp{MAP_E_TELESERVICE_NOT_PROVISIONED}) from Subscription Errors.
@item @b{unidentified-subscriber(5)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNIDENTIFIED_SUBSCRIBER}) from Identification and Numbering Errors.
@item @b{unknown-subscriber(1)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER}) from Identification and Numbering Errors.
@end itemize

@node Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param
@subsubsection Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param
@vindex Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{absent-subscriber-sm}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{109}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab109,109,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Absent-Subscriber-SM-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
Values are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040.
Can be either for non-GPRS or non-GRPS.
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item additional-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
Values are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040.
When present, absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM is for non-GRPS and this attribute is for GPRS.
@end vtable

@node Message-Wait-List-Full-Param
@subsubsection Message-Wait-List-Full-Param
@vindex Message-Wait-List-Full-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Message-Wait-List-Full-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{message-wait-list-full}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{108}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab108,108,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Message-Wait-List-Full-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause
@subsubsection SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause
@vindex SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause

An instance of the OM class
@b{SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{sm-delivery-failure}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{107}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab107,107,OM Attributes of OM class @b{SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item sm-Enumerated-Delivery-Failure-Cause
@table @asis
@item @b{memory-capacity-exceeded}
(@samp{MAP_T_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED} @samp{0})
@item @b{equipment-protocol-error}
(@samp{MAP_T_EQUIPMENT_PROTOCOL_ERROR} @samp{1})
@item @b{equipment-not-sm-equipped}
(@samp{MAP_T_EQUIPMENT_NOT_SM_EQUIPPED} @samp{2})
@item @b{unknown-service-centre}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNKNOWN_SERVICE-CENTRE} @samp{3})
@item @b{sc-congestion}
(@samp{MAP_T_SC_CONGESTION} @samp{4})
@item @b{invalid-sme-address}
(@samp{MAP_T_INVALID_SME_ADDRESS} @samp{5})
@item @b{subscriber-not-sc-subscriber}
(@samp{MAP_T_SUBSCRIBER_NOT_SC_SUBSCRIBER} @samp{6})
@end table
@item diagnostic-Info
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param
@subsubsection Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param
@vindex Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{subscriber-busy-for-mt-sms}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{106}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab106,106,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Sub-Busy-For-MT-SMS-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@item gprs-Connection-Suspended
@end vtable

@node Group Call Errors
@subsection Group Call Errors

@menu
* No-Group-Call-Nb-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Group Call 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{no-group-call-number-available(50)}
(@samp{MAP_E_NO_GROUP_CALL_NUMBER_AVAILABLE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{No-Group-Call-Nb-Param}.
@end table

@node No-Group-Call-Nb-Param
@subsubsection No-Group-Call-Nb-Param
@vindex No-Group-Call-Nb-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{No-Group-Call-Nb-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{no-groupcall-number-available}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{110}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab110,110,OM Attributes of OM class @b{No-Group-Call-Nb-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Location Service Errors
@subsection Location Service Errors

@menu
* Position-Method-Failure-Param::
* Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param::
* Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param::
* Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-CLient-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Location Service 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{unauthorized-requesting-network(52)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_NETWORK})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param}.
@item @b{unauthorized-lcs-client(53)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNAUTHORIZED_LCS_CLIENT})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param}.
@item @b{position-method-failure(54)}
(@samp{MAP_E_POSITION_METHOD_FAILURE})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Position-Method-Failure-Param}.
@item @b{unknown-or-unreachable-lcs-client(58)}
(@samp{MAP_E_UNKNOWN_OR_UNREACHABLE_LCS_CLIENT})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-CLient-Param}.
@end table

@node Position-Method-Failure-Param
@subsubsection Position-Method-Failure-Param
@vindex Position-Method-Failure-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Position-Method-Failure-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{position-method-failure}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{113}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab113,113,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Position-Method-Failure-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item position-Method-Failure-Diagnostic
@table @asis
@item @b{congestion}
(@samp{MAP_T_CONGESTION} @samp{0})
@item @b{insufficient-resources}
(@samp{MAP_T_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES} @samp{1})
@item @b{insufficient-measurement-data}
(@samp{MAP_T_INSUFFICIENT_MEASUREMENT_DATA} @samp{2})
@item @b{inconsistent-measurement-data}
(@samp{MAP_T_INCONSISTENT_MEASUREMENT_DATA} @samp{3})
@item @b{location-procedure-not-completed}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_PROCEDURE_NOT_COMPLETED} @samp{4})
@item @b{location-procedure-not-supported-by-target-ms}
(@samp{MAP_T_LOCATION_PROCEDURE_NOT_SUPPORTED_BY_TARGET_MS} @samp{5})
@item @b{qos-not-attainable}
(@samp{MAP_T_QOS_NOT_ATTAINABLE} @samp{6})
@item @b{position-method-not-available-in-network}
(@samp{MAP_T_POSITION_METHOD_NOT_AVAILABLE_IN_NETWORK} @samp{7})
@item @b{position-method-not-available-in-location-area}
(@samp{MAP_T_POSITION_METHOD_NOT_AVAILABLE_IN_LOCATION_AREA} @samp{8})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param
@subsubsection Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param
@vindex Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unauthorized-lcs-client}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{112}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab112,112,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unauthorized-LCS-Client-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item unauthorized-LCS-Client-Diagnostic
@table @asis
@item @b{no-additional-information}
(@samp{MAP_T_NO_ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION} @samp{0})
@item @b{client-not-in-ms-privacy-exception-list}
(@samp{MAP_T_CLIENT_NOT_IN_MS_PRIVACY_EXCEPTION_LIST} @samp{1})
@item @b{call-to-client-not-setup}
(@samp{MAP_T_CALL_TO_CLIENT_NOT_SETUP} @samp{2})
@item @b{privacy-override-not-applicable}
(@samp{MAP_T_PRIVACY_OVERRIDE_NOT_APPLICABLE} @samp{3})
@item @b{disallowed-by-local-regulatory-requirements}
(@samp{MAP_T_DISALLOWED_BY_LOCAL_REGULATORY_REQUIREMENTS} @samp{4})
@item @b{unauthorized-privacy-class}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAUTHORIZED_PRIVACY_CLASS} @samp{5})
@item @b{unauthorized-call-session-unrelated-external-client}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAUTHORIZED_CALL_SESSION_UNRELATED_EXTERNAL_CLIENT} @samp{6})
@item @b{unauthorized-call-session-related-external-client}
(@samp{MAP_T_UNAUTHORIZED_CALL_SESSION_RELATED_EXTERNAL_CLIENT} @samp{7})
@end table
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param
@subsubsection Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param
@vindex Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unauthorized-requesting-network}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{111}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab111,111,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unauthorized-Requesting-Network-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-CLient-Param
@subsubsection Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-CLient-Param
@vindex Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-CLient-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-Client-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{unknown-or-unreachable-lcs-client}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{114}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab114,114,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Unknown-Or-Unreachable-LCS-Client-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Mobility Management Errors
@subsection Mobility Management Errors

@menu
* MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Mobility Management 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{mm-event-not-supported(59)}
(@samp{MAP_E_MM_EVENT_NOT_SUPPORTED})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param}.
@end table

@node MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param
@subsubsection MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param
@vindex MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{mm-event-not-supported}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{115}.

@tabfig{xmap_tab115,115,OM Attributes of OM class @b{MM-Event-Not-Supported-Param}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item extension-Container
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension-Container}.  @xref{Extension-Container}.
@item extension
This optional attribute is an instance of OM class @b{Extension}.  @xref{Extension}.
@end vtable

@node Secure Transport Errors
@subsection Secure Transport Errors

@menu
* Secure-Transport-Error-Param::
@end menu

A future GSM MAP services package defines the following Secure Transport 
@i{GSM-Service-Error} problem values and parameter syntaxes:

@table @asis
@item @b{secure-transport-error(4)}
(@samp{MAP_E_SECURE_TRANSPORT_ERROR})
The error @var{parameter} associated with this error is an instance of OM class
@b{Secure-Transport-Error-Param}.
@end table

@node Secure-Transport-Error-Param
@subsubsection Secure-Transport-Error-Param
@vindex Secure-Transport-Error-Param

An instance of the OM class
@b{Secure-Transport-Error-Param}
provides an object for use in the @var{parameter} attribute of an @i{GSM-Service-Error} object when
the @var{problem} value is set to
@b{secure-transport-error}
An instance of this class has all of the OM attributes of its superclasses, @i{Object}.

@vtable @var
@item security-header
@item protected-Payload
@end vtable


@node C Headers
@appendix C Headers

@menu
* xmap.h::
* xmap_gsm.h::
* xmap_ansi.h::
* xmap_gsm_sm.h::
@end menu

@node xmap.h
@section @file{xmap.h}

@smallformat
@verbatiminclude xmap.h
@end smallformat

@page
@node xmap_gsm.h
@section @file{xmap_gsm.h}

@smallformat
@verbatiminclude xmap_gsm.h
@end smallformat

@page
@node xmap_ansi.h
@section @file{xmap_ansi.h}

@page
@node xmap_gsm_sm.h
@section @file{xmap_gsm_sm.h}

@node Examples
@appendix Examples

@smallformat
@verbatiminclude example.c
@end smallformat

@node License
@unnumbered License

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/fdl13.texi

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
