@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2008-04-28 22:33:30 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:33:30 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers, libraries,
programs, initialization scripts, and daemons.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains header files and a number of modules and drivers
and the associated documentation originally contained in the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} release, but
not contained in the @cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} releases.

The package uses the following standard @cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} conforming header
files from the @file{strxnet} package:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/tiuser.h>} @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/tihdr.h>} @cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)}
@end multitable

The package currently provides the following @dfn{STREAMS} modules and
drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .50 .45
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_sockmod.ko} @tab @dfn{module}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_socksys.ko} @tab @file{/dev/socksys}
@end multitable

@itemize
@item @manref{sockmod(4)}
The @manpage{sockmod(4)} module, when pushed on a @cite{TPI} @dfn{Stream}, attempts to provide as
wide a range of support for traditional @cite{SVR 4.2} socket module and socket system support.

It does so by recognizing input-output controls from three sets: @* @manpage{sockmod(4)}
input-output controls; @manpage{socksys(4)} input-output controls, and even @manpage{socket(7)}
system calls.

@item @manref{socksys(4)}
The @manpage{socksys(4)} driver, when opened, provides a @cite{TPI} @dfn{Stream} that attempts to
provide as wide a range of support for traditional @cite{SVR 4.2} socket module and socket system
support.

It does so by recognizing input-output controls from three sets: @* @manpage{sockmod(4)}
input-output controls; @manpage{socksys(4)} input-output controls, and even @manpage{socket(7)}
system calls.
@end itemize

The package currently provides the following @dfn{STREAMS} libraries:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{libsocket.so} @file{libsocket.a}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{libsocklib.so} @file{libsocklib.a}
@end multitable

The @file{libsocket} library implements the following library calls:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .32 .32 .31
@item @tab @manref{socket(3)} @tab @tab
@end multitable

The @file{libsocket} library only needs to implement the single library call because file
descriptors that are returned from the @manpage{socket(3)} call have been transformed into real
sockets (from the viewpoint of the system call interface) and standard @file{glibc} calls for the
remaining functions are used.

The @file{libsocklib} library implements the following library calls:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .32 .32 .31
@item @tab @manref{accept(3)}		@tab @manref{listen(3)}		@tab @manref{sendto(3)}
@item @tab @manref{bind(3)}		@tab @manref{recv(3)}		@tab @manref{setsockopt(3)}
@item @tab @manref{connect(3)}		@tab @manref{recvfrom(3)}	@tab @manref{shutdown(3)}
@item @tab @manref{getpeername(3)}	@tab @manref{recvmsg(3)}	@tab @manref{socket(3)}
@item @tab @manref{getsockname(3)}	@tab @manref{send(3)}		@tab @manref{socketpair(3)}
@item @tab @manref{getsockopt(3)}	@tab @manref{sendmsg(3)}	@tab
@end multitable

The @file{libsocklib} library is the older compatibility library approach to providing sockets for
@dfn{STREAMS} and implements the system calls as library calls for @dfn{STREAMS} devices, while
calling the @file{glibc} versions for true sockets.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} modules and drivers.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

