@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=78 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2006/09/18 01:07:17 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/18 01:07:17 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
Testing.  This package is completely untested.

@item
Create a @manref{socksys(4)} @cite{Socket System} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.

@item
It would be interesting to perform some @cite{Netperf} and @cite{Iperf}
performance tests against @dfn{STREAMS}-based network drivers supporting
@cite{Transport Provider Interface (TPI)} and @dfn{Sockets} using this socket
system.  Without @manpage{sockmod(4)} and @file{libsocket} it was only
possible to use @cite{Netperf} for performance testing, and then only using
the XTI tests.

@item
Create the @manref{socket(3)} @file{libsocket} shared library.

@item
Create a @manref{sockmod(4)} @cite{Socket Module} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@item
Move already written code from the @file{stacks} or @file{strss7} directories
into the @file{src} directory.

@item
Create a skeleton directory and manual and place @command{@value{PACKAGE}} as
a sub-package in the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package}.

@emph{*done*}

You are reading it.
@end itemize

The @command{@value{PACKAGE}} package is currently incomplete.

The purpose of the package was to move @dfn{STREAMS} socket capabilities
outside of the @dfn{STREAMS} release package so as to allow them to be used
with both @cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  As @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} has already shown superior to @cite{LiS} in terms of both
performance and conformance, it is no longer necessary to keep these packages
separate and they can be combined once again (or still) with @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

