@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2007/02/28 06:31:28 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:31:28 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/02/28 06:31:28  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/08 16:24:28  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/12/31 13:48:51  brian
@c - updated documentation for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/18 01:07:18  brian
@c - updated manuals and release texi docs
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/23 10:03:59  brian
@c - started STREAMS Sockets package
@c
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_sockmod.ko
@item streams_socksys.ko
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header
@item sys/strsock/config.h
@item sys/strsock/version.h
@item sys/sockio.h
@item sys/sockmod.h
@item sys/sockpath.h
@item sys/socksys.h
@item sys/socklib.h
@item sockdb.h
@item sockio.h
@item sockmod.h
@item socksys.h
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item test-sockpath
test case executable.
@item test-socket
test case executable.
@item test-socklib
test case executable.
@item test-sockmod
test case executable.
@item test-socksys
test case executable.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item initsock
@item soconfig
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@item libsockpath.so.0.0.0
@itemx libsockpath.so.0
@itemx libsockpath.so
@item libsockpath.a
@item libsockpath.la
@item libsocket.a
@item libsocket.la
@item libsocklib.a
@item libsocklib.la
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@ignore
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@end ignore
@item sock2path
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual page macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@item accept.3
@item bind.3
@item connect.3
@item getpeername.3
@item getsockname.3
@item getsockopt.3
@item libsocket.3
@item listen.3
@item recv.3
@item recvfrom.3
@item recvmsg.3
@item send.3
@item sendmsg.3
@item sendto.3
@item setsockopt.3
@item shutdown.3
@item socket.3
@item socketpair.3
@item sockets.3
@item endsockpath.3
@item freesockpathent.3
@item getsockpath.3
@item getsockpathent.3
@item setsockpath.3
@item sockpath.3
@item sp_perror.3
@item sp_sperror.3
@item libsocklib.3
@item socklib.3
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item sockmod.4
@item socksys.4
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@item sock2path.5
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item initsock.8
@item soconfig.8
@item test-socket.8
@item test-socklib.8
@item test-sockmod.8
@item test-sockpath.8
@item test-socksys.8
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strsock
/usr/include/strsock/sys
/usr/include/strsock/sys/strsock
/usr/include/strsock/sys/strsock/config.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/strsock/version.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/sockio.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/sockmod.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/sockpath.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/socksys.h
/usr/include/strsock/sys/socklib.h
/usr/include/strsock/sockdb.h
/usr/include/strsock/sockio.h
/usr/include/strsock/sockmod.h
/usr/include/strsock/socksys.h
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strsock.macros
/usr/share/man/strsock.refs
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/accept.3
/usr/share/man/man3/bind.3
/usr/share/man/man3/connect.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getpeername.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getsockname.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getsockopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libsocket.3
/usr/share/man/man3/listen.3
/usr/share/man/man3/recv.3
/usr/share/man/man3/recvfrom.3
/usr/share/man/man3/recvmsg.3
/usr/share/man/man3/send.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sendmsg.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sendto.3
/usr/share/man/man3/setsockopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/shutdown.3
/usr/share/man/man3/socket.3
/usr/share/man/man3/socketpair.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sockets.3
/usr/share/man/man3/endsockpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/freesockpathent.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getsockpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getsockpathent.3
/usr/share/man/man3/setsockpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sockpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sp_perror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/sp_sperror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libsocklib.3
/usr/share/man/man3/socklib.3
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/sockmod.4
/usr/share/man/man4/socksys.4
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/sock2path.5
/usr/share/man/man5/strsock.5
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/initsock.8
/usr/share/man/man8/soconfig.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-socket.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-socklib.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sockmod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sockpath.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-socksys.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strsock_mknod.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strsock.info
/usr/share/info/strsock.info-1
/usr/share/info/strsock.info-2
/usr/lib
/usr/lib/libsockpath.so.0.0.0
/usr/lib/libsockpath.so.0
/usr/lib/libsockpath.so
/usr/lib/libsockpath.la
/usr/lib/libsockpath.a
/usr/lib/libsocket.la
/usr/lib/libsocket.a
/usr/lib/libsocklib.la
/usr/lib/libsocklib.a
/usr/bin
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strsock
/usr/libexec/strsock/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strsock/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strsock/test-sockpath
/usr/libexec/strsock/test-socket
/usr/libexec/strsock/test-socklib
/usr/libexec/strsock/test-sockmod
/usr/libexec/strsock/test-socksys
/usr/libexec/strsock/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strsock/atlocal
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/initsock
/usr/sbin/soconfig
/usr/sbin/strsock_mknod
/etc
/etc/strsock.conf
/etc/sock2path
/etc/default
/etc/default/strsock
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/strsock.sh
/etc/modutils
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsock
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsock/streams_sockmod.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsock/streams_socksys.ko
@end ignore
