@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100 fo+=tcqlorn
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2008-10-29 12:23:12 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-10-29 12:23:12 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial open source release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This release
contains modules and drivers formerly only available with Commercial releases of the @file{strss7}
package and which are only recently available as open source with the release of this package.

With OpenSS7 Master Package release @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}, the ISO/OSI components were separated
from the @file{strss7} package and placed in this package.  Not all of the ISO/OSI components
previously part of the @file{strss7} package have been strapped into this release.  Components will
be re-validated against @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on a module-by-module and driver-by-driver basis.
See @file{TODO} in the release, or @refman{Schedule}, for information about the release schedule.

In this initial release, the major component first available is LAPB.  @manpage{lapb(4)} is a
pushable @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over a @manpage{cdi(4)} HDLC channel to form an X.25
data link providing the Data Link Provider Interface, @manpage{dlpi(7)}.  A complete test suite will
be available in a further release.

Subsequent releases in 4Q 2008 will include the additional full ISO/OSI X.25< CONS, CLNS, and TP0
through TP4, drivers with conformance test suites.

