% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: strx25.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2009-05-03 10:54:45 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
% Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
% under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
% any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
% Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
% copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
% Documentation License".
%
% Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
% modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
% granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
% permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
% Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
% distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
% written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
% about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
% provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
% 
% Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
% results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
% notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
% (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
% 
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
% DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
% FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
% CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
% IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
% PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
% CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
% USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
% OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
% THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
% THEREOF.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2009-05-03 10:54:45 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename strx25.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 X25: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).	An Open STREAMS X25 Networking Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@subsubheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE;
THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this manual

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Development::			Developing with the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* Licenses::			Copies of OpenSource Licenses

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Objective

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package

Development

* Development Header Files::	Header Files in the package
* Static and Shared Libraries::	Libraries in the package
* Kernel Module Development::	Kernel development with the package
* Manual Pages::		Manual Pages in the package
* Programming Manuals::         Programming Manuals in the package

Conformance

* NPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the NPI.
* TPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the TPI.
* XTI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the XTI.
* IETF Conformance::		    Conformance to IETF

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

Licenses

* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no
invariant sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.  Some of the manuals and

@node Abstract
@section Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a guide for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} developer
when downloading, building, installing and using the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

This guide provides information to developers on the downloading, building, installation and use of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@subsection Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as an installation guide and reference manual to the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} developer.  It is intended to be read alone and is not intended to
replace or supplement the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing
code, the manual pages (see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.

Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, administration, kernel dumps, crashes, oops logs, package managers, the autoconf packaging
system, etc.

The guide is intended for installers and maintainers of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} software.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revision History
@section Revision History
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/repos/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}


@subsection Version Control

@noindent
Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a reference point for the
industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces are well defined in this
release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products conforming to the interfaces
being made available.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log: strx25.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.8  2009-05-03 10:54:45  brian
- documentation updates

Revision 0.9.2.7  2009-05-01 04:50:49  brian
- update documentation for release

Revision 0.9.2.6  2009-04-29 18:05:40  brian
- updated documentation for release

Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-11-26 12:01:49  brian
- updated to FDL 1.3

Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-09-20 11:04:41  brian
- added package patchlevel

Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-08-03 06:03:41  brian
- protected agains texinfo commands in log entries

Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/27 08:49:53  brian
- no invariant sections, more libtool ignores

Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 10:46:37  brian
- added package files
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@section Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@strong{@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation
including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infringement, or title; that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action or contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this documentation or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.}

@subsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@section Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@url{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} was funded in part by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end multitable

Thanks to the subscribers to and sponsors of @url{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project}.
Without their support, open software like this would not be possible.

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@section Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @refman{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this manual.

@node Maintainer
@section Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xrefman{Problem
Reports}.

@node Web Resources
@section Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is
a STREAMS X25 Networking (X25) package for Linux
that can be used with
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual, STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}.
@ignore
or
@cite{Linux STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux STREAMS (LiS), About This Manual, LiS, Linux STREAMS (LiS) Reference Manual}.}.
@end ignore
It includes development tools, header files and manual pages for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Development::			Developing with the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Development}.
@tab Developing with the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @cite{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @cite{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @cite{Development}.
@tab Developing with the package
@item @cite{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @cite{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @cite{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @cite{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

@menu
* Benefits::
@end menu

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is intended to provide compatibility with
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4} networking components based on the Wide Area
Network Interface (WAN), Link Layer Interface (LLI) and Network Layer Interface
(NLI) in a single add-on package to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  One purpose in
achieving compatability is the porting of legacy applications from @cite{UNIX}
to @cite{Linux} using the capabilities of @cite{STREAMS} and @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

Another objective of providing these interfaces for Streams for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} was to permit @manref{x25-plp(4)} Streams to be opened, linked
under multiplexing drivers, and to have @cite{STREAMS} modules pushed over
them.  The purpose was to provide access to the X.25 protocol suite to
@cite{STREAMS} modules and drivers written for other packages under the
@url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}, as well as to provide ISO
capabilities for the @file{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} package.

The initial approach to implementing X.25 and Frame Relay drivers was to
provide an in-kernel @cite{STREAMS} over socket approach.  Under this approach,
the @cite{STREAMS} @manref{x25-plp(4)} driver converts between NLI primitives
received from the Stream head and in-kernel calls to an internally opened
socket of the appropriate type.  While this provided an adequate mechanism for
providing Internet Protocol @cite{STREAMS} presenting the appropriate service
interface, it is rather inefficient.

The second approach that is available in this release is a complete
@cite{STREAMS} implementation of the @manref{x25-plp(4)} and @manref{lapb(4)}
drivers.  The ability to link these Streams underneath multiplexing drivers or
pushed beneath modules for protocols such as @manref{cons(4)} is very
beneficial.

The result is stable, production grade, 64-bit clean TPI implementations of
X.25 protocols for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} that can be used by other
@cite{STREAMS} modules and drivers.

@node Benefits
@section Benefits

There are a number of benefits of the @cite{STREAMS} approach to X.25 for
@cite{Linux}:

@enumerate
@item
The X.25 (Packet Layer Protocol) PLP layer can be generalized.  This layer can
be used over TCP to form the XOT protocol, and over SCTP to form the XOS
protocol.
@item
Historical @cite{UNIX} applications written for branded @cite{UNIX} such as
@cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIX} and @cite{Solaris}, or for embedded
systems such as @cite{PT}, @cite{Radisys} or @cite{SBE} can be ported to
@cite{Linux} without modification.
@item
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO), IEEE and Open Group
(POSIX) application programming interfaces may be used, such as XX25,
increasing application portability.
@item
OSI CONS and CLNS modules can be used over the X.25 PLP driver to provide OSI
CONS and CLNS services for X.25 and ISO 8208 OSI application such as Military,
Aviation (CNS/ATM) and Financial applications.
@end enumerate

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex headers

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the following @dfn{STREAMS} drivers:

@table @asis

@item @manref{clns(4)} (@file{streams_clns.ko})
Contains the @manpage{clns(4)} driver.

@item @manref{lapb(4)} (@file{streams_x25-lapb.ko})
Contains the @manpage{lapb(4)} driver.

@item @manref{plp(4)} (@file{streams_x25-plp.ko})
Contains the @manpage{plp(4)} driver.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the following @dfn{STREAMS} modules:

@table @asis

@item @manref{cmot(4)} (@file{streams_cmot.ko})
Contains the @manpage{cmot(4)} module.

@item @manref{isot(4)} (@file{streams_isot.ko})
Contains the @manpage{isot(4)} module.

@item @manref{itot(4)} (@file{streams_itot.ko})
Contains the @manpage{itot(4)} module.

@item @manref{lpp(4)} (@file{streams_lpp.ko})
Contains the @manpage{lpp(4)} module.

@item @manref{tcpns(4)} (@file{streams_tcpns.ko})
Contains the @manpage{tcpns(4)} module.

@item @manref{xot(4)} (@file{streams_xot.ko})
Contains the @manpage{xot(4)} module.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Libraries
@section Libraries
@cindex libraries

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the following shared object and static libraries:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not currently provide any libraries.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

@subsection Init Scripts

Following are System V Init Scripts that are installed by the package:

@table @asis

@item @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}
@itemx @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}.sh
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh

System V Init Script for the @dfn{X25} Subsystem.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} init script provides the ability to initialize, configure and mount the
@dfn{X25} subsystem, @manpage{strxnet(5)}.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} script provides the RedHat-style init script, whereas the
@manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} script provides the Debian-style init script.

See @manref{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} for more information.

@end table

@subsection Administrative Utilities

Following are user utilities for manipulating @dfn{INET}:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package
builds and installs the following utilities:

@table @command

@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This is a C-language program that can be used by startup scripts to create device nodes for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE}} package.  This utility is normally installed in the @file{/usr/sbin}
directory.
See @manref{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} for more information.

@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is a @cite{RedHat}-style System V init script that is installed and used to start and stop the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE}} package.  Starting consists of creating X.25 device nodes using
@command{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod} and installing the @file{streams-sctp} and
@file{streams-tpiperf} modules in the running kernel.  This init script is normally installed in the
@file{/etc/init.d} directory.

@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is a @cite{Debian}-style System V init script that is installed and used to start and stop the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE}} package in a similar fashion to the @command{@value{PACKAGE}}
script, but in the @cite{Debian} style.  This init script is normally installed in the
@file{/etc/rc.d/init.d} directory.

@end table

@subsection Performance Test Programs

Following are performance test programs:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not yet contain any performance programs.  For
performance testing of various transport providers, see the @file{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}}
package.

@subsection Conformance Test Programs

Following are conformance and validation test programs included in the package:


The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package
builds and installs the following test programs:

@table @command


@end table

For more information on the use of the problem reporting scripts, see @refman{Generating Problem
Reports}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Development
@chapter Development
@cindex developing

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides all of the header files, shared object and static libraries,
manual pages and documentation necessary for the development of both user space applications
programs and kernel space @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers based on the package.  The sections that
follow describe these development facilities.

@menu
* Development Header Files::	Header Files in the package
* Static and Shared Libraries::	Libraries in the package
* Kernel Module Development::	Kernel development with the package
* Manual Pages::		Manual Pages in the package
* Programming Manuals::         Programming Manuals in the package
@end menu

@node Development Header Files::
@section Header Files

Header files are installed, typically, in the @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/} subdirectory.  To
use the header files from the package, @samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} must be included in the
@command{gcc} command line as a preprocessor option.

In general, @samp{-I} include preprocessor directives on the @command{gcc} command line should be
ordered in the reverse order of the dependencies between packages.  So, for example, if the include
files from all add-on packages are required, the order of these directives would be:
@samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}
@samp{-I/usr/include/strxns}
@samp{-I/usr/include/strcompat}
@samp{-I/usr/include/streams}.

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}:

@table @header
@item npi_x25.h
NPI interface service primitive definitions for X.25.
@item sx25.h
NLI interface message primitive definitions.
@item xnetdb.h
X.25 networking database definitions.
@item xti_xx25.h
XTI interface service primitive definitions for X.25.
@end table

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys}:

@table @header
@item sys/npi_x25.h
NPI interface service primitive definitions for X.25.
@item sys/xti_xx25.h
XTI interface service primitive definitions for X.25.
@end table

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/netx25}:

@table @header
@item netx25/ll_control.h
LLI interface input-output control definitions.
@item netx25/nli.h
NLI interface message primitive definitions.
@item netx25/x25_control.h
X.25 PLP interface input-output control definitions.
@item netx25/x25_proto.h
X.25 PLP interface message primitive definitions.
@item netx25/xnetdb.h
X.25 networking database definitions.
@end table

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/snet}:

@table @header
@item snet/dl_control.h
DLPI interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/dl_proto.h
DLPI interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/ixe_control.h
IP over X.25 Encapsulation (IXE) interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/ixe_proto.h
IP over X.25 Encapsulation (IXE) interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/ll_control.h
LLI interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/ll_proto.h
LLI interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/mlp_control.h
X.25 MLP interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/mlp_proto.h
X.25 MLP interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/wan_control.h
WAN interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/wan_proto.h
WAN interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/x25_control.h
X.25 PLP interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/x25_proto.h
X.25 PLP interface message primitive definitions.
@item snet/x32_control.h
X.32 PAD interface input-output control definitions.
@item snet/xxx_control.h
@end table

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/snet}:

@table @header
@item sys/snet/dl_control.h
DLPI interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/dl_proto.h
DLPI interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/ixe_control.h
IP over X.25 Encapsulation (IXE) interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/ixe_proto.h
IP over X.25 Encapsulation (IXE) interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/ll_control.h
LLI interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/ll_proto.h
LLI interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/mlp_control.h
X.25 MLP interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/mlp_proto.h
X.25 MLP interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/wan_control.h
WAN interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/wan_proto.h
WAN interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/x25_control.h
X.25 PLP interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/x25_proto.h
X.25 PLP interface message primitive definitions.
@item sys/snet/x32_control.h
X.32 PAD interface input-output control definitions.
@item sys/snet/xxx_control.h
@end table

@subsection User Space Programs

Typical include files for interacting with Transport providers from user space include the
@file{xti.h} header file.  Additional header files for interacting with specific drivers or modules
may also be required.  The @cite{xti.h} header file is for interacting with the XTI library.

@subsection Kernel Space Drivers and Modules

Typical include files for writing @dfn{STREAMS} module and drivers implementing transport providers
in kernels space include @cite{xti.h} and @cite{xti_sctp.h}.  The header files provide access to
definitions for the TPI interface and additional XTI definitions for use by @dfn{STREAMS} drivers
and modules.  Additional header files for interacting with specific drivers or modules may also be
required.

Aside from including this header files, the general procedures for compiling @dfn{STREAMS} modules
and drivers also apply to @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers written to the Transport Provider
Interface.

@page
@node Static and Shared Libraries
@section Libraries

Shared or static version of the @cite{libxnet} library may be linked when using the
@file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package.@footnote{Note that the @file{libxnet} library is
now provided by the @file{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} package.} The library may either be
specified on the @command{gcc} command line as a shared library (e.g. @samp{-lxnet}) or as a static
library (e.g.  @samp{/usr/lib/libxnet.a}).

If the shared object library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command
line:

@table @samp

@item -lxnet
Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.so} shared library.

@end table

If the static library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @samp

@item /usr/lib/libxnet.a
Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.a} static library.

@end table

@page
@node Kernel Module Development
@section Kernel Modules

Developing TPI kernel modules is similar to user space programs with regard to header files.
@file{/usr/include/strxnet} should be placed as an include directory to search on the @command{gcc}
command line.  The rules for compiling @cite{Linux} kernel modules and the rules for compiling
@dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers should be followed.  In particular, several important intricacies
should be considered:

@itemize @bullet

@item The @command{gcc} compiler used to compile the kernel modules must be the same version of
compiler that was used to compile the kernel and @dfn{STREAMS} base package.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must have the same compile flags that were used to compile the
kernel and @dfn{STREAMS} base package.  @command{kbuild} can be used to accomplish this.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must define several important kernel defines including
@samp{-DLINUX}, @samp{-D__KERNEL__}, as well as the base name of the module.  Again, @command{kbuild}
can be used to accomplish this.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must include several important files directly on the command
line, such as, @samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-autoconf.h} and
@samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-modversions.h}.@footnote{The
kernel version, @samp{@value{_kversion}}, is just an example.  For the running kernel, use the
output of @samp{uname -r}.}

@end itemize

@page
@node Manual Pages
@section Manual Pages

To assist in the development of user programs and @cite{STREAMS} driver or modules using the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} protocol module, the following manual pages are provided:

The @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package installs a number of manual pages in the
@file{/usr/share/man} directory as follows:

The following manual pages are installed in Section 3 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man3}):

@table @manref
@item endpadent(3)
@item endxhostent(3)
@item equalx25(3)
@item getnettype(3)
@item getpadbyaddr(3)
@item getpadent(3)
@item getxhostbyaddr(3)
@item getxhostbyname(3)
@item getxhostent(3)
@item libsx25(3)
@item libx25(3)
@item linkidtox25(3)
@item padtos(3)
@item setpadent(3)
@item setxhostent(3)
@item snidtox25(3)
@item stox25(3)
@item SX25(3)
@item sx25(3)
@item x25diags(3)
@item x25_find_link_parameters(3)
@item x25_read_config_parameters(3)
@item x25_read_config_parameters_file(3)
@item x25_save_link_parameters(3)
@item x25_set_parse_error_function(3)
@item x25tolinkid(3)
@item x25tos(3)
@item x25tosnid(3)
@item x25_write_config_parameters(3)
@item x25_write_config_parameters_file(3)
@item xti_x25(3)
@item XX25(3)
@end table

The following manual pages are installed in Section 4 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man4}):

@table @manref
@item cd-llc(4)
@item cdpmod(4)
@item cons(4)
@item dlaix(4)
@item dl-llc(4)
@item hdlc(4)
@item ifr(4)
@item ipx25(4)
@item ixe(4)
@item lapb(4)
@item llc2(4)
@item lli(4)
@item mfe(4)
@item mlp(4)
@item nli3(4)
@item npi(4)
@item plp(4)
@item s_cdi(4)
@item s_cons(4)
@item s_dlpi(4)
@item s_lli(4)
@item s_nli3(4)
@item s_npi(4)
@item s_wan(4)
@item s_xx25(4)
@item wan(4)
@item X25(4)
@item x25_lapb(4)
@item x25-lapb(4)
@item x25_llc2(4)
@item x25-llc2(4)
@item x25-llc(4)
@item x25_plp(4)
@item x25-plp(4)
@item xos(4)
@item xot(4)
@item xx25(4)
@end table

The following manual pages are installed in Section 5 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man5}):

@table @manref
@item extraformat(5)
@item ifrdlciconf(5)
@item ifrtemplate(5)
@item lapbtemplate(5)
@item llc2template(5)
@item lsapformat(5)
@item mfeprotoconf(5)
@item mfetemplate(5)
@item padent(5)
@item qosformat(5)
@item strx25(5)
@item wanmapconf(5)
@item wantemplate(5)
@item x25conf(5)
@item x25_primitives(5)
@item x25template(5)
@item xaddrf(5)
@item xhostent(5)
@end table

The following manual pages are installed in Section 7 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man7}):

@table @manref
@item dlpi_lapb(7)
@item dlpi_llc2(7)
@item dlpi_x25(7)
@item N_Abort(7)
@item N_CC(7)
@item N_CI(7)
@item N_DAck(7)
@item N_Data(7)
@item N_DC(7)
@item N_DI(7)
@item N_EAck(7)
@item N_EData(7)
@item N_getlinkstats(7)
@item N_getoneVCstats(7)
@item N_getpvcmap(7)
@item N_getstats(7)
@item N_getVCstats(7)
@item N_getVCstatus(7)
@item NLI(7)
@item nli(7)
@item N_linkconfig(7)
@item N_linkent(7)
@item N_linkmode(7)
@item N_linkread(7)
@item N_nuidel(7)
@item N_nuiget(7)
@item N_nuimget(7)
@item N_nuiput(7)
@item N_nuireset(7)
@item npi_x25(7)
@item N_putpvcmap(7)
@item N_PVC_ATTACH(7)
@item N_PVC_DETACH(7)
@item N_RC(7)
@item N_RI(7)
@item N_traceoff(7)
@item N_traceon(7)
@item N_X25_ADD_ROUTE(7)
@item N_X25_FLUSH_ROUTE(7)
@item N_X25_GET_NEXT_ROUTE(7)
@item N_X25_GET_ROUTE(7)
@item N_X25_RM_ROUTE(7)
@item N_Xcanlis(7)
@item N_Xelisten(7)
@item N_Xlisten(7)
@item N_zerostats(7)
@item WAN(7)
@item wan(7)
@end table

The following manual pages are installed in Section 8 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man8}):

@table @manref
@item ifrdlci(8)
@item ifrstat(8)
@item ifrtune(8)
@item ixemap(8)
@item ixetune(8)
@item linkadd(8)
@item linkdel(8)
@item linklist(8)
@item linkreset(8)
@item linkstart(8)
@item linkstate(8)
@item linkstop(8)
@item lltune(8)
@item mfeproto(8)
@item mfevc(8)
@item mlptune(8)
@item nuimap(8)
@item pvcmap(8)
@item strx25_mknod(8)
@item vcstat(8)
@item wanmap(8)
@item wantune(8)
@item x25diags(8)
@item x25file(8)
@item x25info(8)
@item x25netd(8)
@item x25route(8)
@item x25stat(8)
@item x25trace(8)
@item x25tune(8)
@item x32map(8)
@end table


To assist in the development of user programs and @cite{STREAMS} driver or modules using the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} protocol module, the following header files are provided:

@table @header


@end table

@page
@node Programming Manuals
@section Programming Manuals

A number of programming manuals and interface specifications are included in
this and related sub-packages of the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package} release.

The manuals included in this sub-package are listed here:

@table @cite

@item Network Layer Interface (NLI) Specification

This service primitive interface specification specifies a @cite{STREAMS}
message and input-output control interface to drivers and modules implementing
the X.25 and Frame Relay protocols.  This interface was originally specified by
Spider Systems Limited (now part of a division of Emerson Power) and was
documented with @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-XU}, @cite{IRIX}, @cite{Solaris} and
others.  These documents are available over the web from their various sources.

This document specifies the @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}'s
view of the Version 3 @acronym{NLI} interface designed to be as compatible with all major
implementations as possible.  (Note that the @acronym{NLI} is rather different
from the standard @acronym{NPI} interface.)

The latest copy is normally available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/nli.pdf,PDF format} or in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/nli.html,HTML format}.

@item Link Layer Interface (LLI) Specification

This service primitive interface specification specifies a @cite{STREAMS} message
and input-output control interface to drivers and modules implementing the X.25
and Frame Relay protocols.  This interface was originally specified by Spider
Systems, Ltd. and was documented with @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-XU}, @cite{IRIX},
@cite{Solaris} and others.  These documents are available over the web from
their various sources.

This document specifies the @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}'s
view of the @acronym{NLI} interface designed to be as compatible with all major
implementations as possible.  (Note that the @acronym{LLI} is rather similar
with regard to the message passing interface with the standard @acronym{DLPI};
however, the input-output control interface is quite different.)

The latest copy is normally available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/lli.pdf,PDF format} or in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/lli.html,HTML format}.

@item Wide Area Network Interface (WAN) Specification

This service primitive interface specification specifies a @cite{STREAMS}
message and input-output control interface to drivers and modules implementing
the X.25 and Frame Relay protocols.  This interface was originally specified by
Spider Systems, Ltd. and was documented with @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX},
@cite{IRIX} and @cite{Solaris} and others.  These documents are available over
the web from their various sources.

This document specifies the @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}'s
view of the @acronym{WAN} interface designed to be as compatible with all major
implementations as possible.  (Note that the @acronym{WAN} is rather different
from the more usual @acronym{CDI} interface.)

The latest copy is normally available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/wan.pdf,PDF format} or in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/wan.html,HTML format}.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

Although @cite{OpenSS7 Project} software is of high quality, and untested behaviour is often correct
behaviour, the principle of the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} is to test all functional requirements
against the behaviour of the package in a repeatable validation test suite that can be used to
perform regression, target architecture validation and trouble shooting, (@pxrefman{Maturity}, and
@pxrefman{Test Suites}).

@menu
* WAN Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the WAN.
* CDI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the CDI.
* LLI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the LLI.
* DLPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the DLPI.
* NLI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the NLI.
* NPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the NPI.
* TPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the TPI.
* XTI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the XTI.
* XX25 Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the XX25.
* IETF Conformance::		    Conformance to IETF
@end menu

@node WAN Interface Conformance
@section WAN Interface Conformance
@cindex WAN interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers and modules conform to the
@cite{Wide Area Network} interface as released by various
sources.@footnote{Such as the @cite{AIXLink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIX},
@cite{Solaris}, @cite{PT}, @cite{Radisys} and @cite{SBE} documentation.}
An @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} document specifying the
protocol is available as part of the @samp{strx25} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/wan.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/wan.html, HTML format}.

@node CDI Interface Conformance
@section CDI Interface Conformance
@cindex CDI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers conform to the @cite{Communications
Device Interface (CDI) Revision 1.0.0} as release by @cite{NCR Compten}.  A
copy of the original document is unavailable.  An
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/OpenSS7 Project} document specifying the protocol
is available as part of the @samp{strxns} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/cdi.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/cdi.html, HTML format}.

@node LLI Interface Conformance
@section LLI Interface Conformance
@cindex LLI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers and modules conform to the
@cite{Link Layer Interface} as released by various
sources.@footnote{Such as the @cite{AIXLink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIX},
@cite{Solaris}, @cite{PT}, @cite{Radisys} and @cite{SBE} documentation.}
An @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} document specifying the
protocol is available as part of the @samp{strx25} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/lli.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/lli.html, HTML format}.

@node DLPI Interface Conformance
@section DLPI Interface Conformance
@cindex DLPI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers conform to the @cite{Data Link
Provider Interface (DLPI) Revision 2.0.0} as released by @cite{UNIX
International}.  A copy of the original document is available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/dlpi.pdf, The OpenSS7 Project Website}.  A
reprint of the document specifying this version of the protocol is available as
part of the @samp{strxns} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/dlpi.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/dlpi.html, HTML format}.

@node NLI Interface Conformance
@section NLI Interface Conformance
@cindex NLI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers and modules conform to the
@cite{Network Layer Interface Revision 3} as released by various
sources.@footnote{Such as the @cite{AIXLink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIX},
@cite{Solaris}, @cite{PT}, @cite{Radisys} and @cite{SBE} documentation.}
An @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} document specifying this
version of the protocol is available as part of the @samp{strx25} package
available on line in @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/nli.pdf, PDF format},
or also in simple @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/nli.html, HTML format}.

@node NPI Interface Conformance
@section NPI Interface Conformance
@cindex NPI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers conform to the @cite{Network Provider
Interface (NPI) Revision 2.0.0} as released by @cite{UNIX International}.  A
copy of the original document is available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf, The OpenSS7 Project Website}.  A
reprint of the document specifying this version of the protocol is available as
part of the @samp{strxns} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/npi.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/npi.html, HTML format}.

@node TPI Interface Conformance
@section TPI Interface Conformance
@cindex TPI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers conform to the @cite{Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0} as released by @cite{UNIX
International}.  A copy of the original document is available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/tpi.pdf, The OpenSS7 Project Website}.  A
reprint of the document specifying this version of the protocol is available as
part of the @samp{strxnet} package available on line in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/tpi.pdf, PDF format}, or also in simple
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/tpi.html, HTML format}.

@node XTI Interface Conformance
@section XTI Interface Conformance
@cindex XTI interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers conform to the @cite{X/Open Transport
Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) X/Open Networking Services (XNS)
Revision 5.2} as released by @cite{The OpenGroup}.  A copy of the original
document is available from @uref{http://www.opengroup.org/, The OpenGroup
website}.  Reprints of the document are not available from The OpenSS7 Project
website due to copyright restrictions.  Similar information is available in the
manual pages that accompany the @samp{strxnet} package.  These can be viewed on
line starting at @uref{http://www.openss7.org/man2html?3+xti, XTI/TLI manpage}.

@node XX25 Interface Conformance
@section XX25 Interface Conformance
@cindex XX25 interface conformance

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers and modules conform to the
@cite{X.25 Programming Interface using XTI (XX25)} as released by @cite{The
OpenGroup}.  A copy of the original document is available from
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/, The OpenGroup website}.  Reprints of the
document are not available from The OpenSS7 Project website due to copyright
restrictions.  Similar information is available in the manual pages that
accompany the @samp{strx25} package.  These can be viewed on line starting at
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man2html?3+xx25, XX25 manpage}.

@node IETF Conformance
@section IETF Conformance
@cindex IETF conformance

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
