% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: x25_porting.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2008-08-03 06:03:41 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-08-03 06:03:41 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% $Log: x25_porting.texi,v $
% Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-08-03 06:03:41  brian
% - protected agains texinfo commands in log entries
%
% Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:55  brian
% - added files
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename x25_porting.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE X.25 Porting Guide
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* X.25 Porting: (x25_porting).			An X.25 Porting Guide.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE X.25 Porting Guide

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
the @cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed manual carries copying permission notice identical to this
one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant
to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting derived
work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this
one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE X.25 Porting Guide

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
manual, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7
Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to
this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@c @defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@c @defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@c @defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@c Define an index of primitives.
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values.
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of protocol states.
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of protocol errors.
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of input-output controls.
@defcodeindex ci

@synindex tp cp
@synindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@synindex pg cp

@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex ci cp

@synindex mp cp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim {name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval {name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr {name}
@code{\name\}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta {name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm {name}
@code{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro dlioc {name}
@code{\name\}@ciindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex

@macro prim {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro psta {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro dlioc {name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Porting::
* Porting from AIX::
* Porting from IRIX::
* Porting from NexusWare::
* Porting from PowerMAX::
* Porting from Solaris::
* Developing on OpenSS7::
* Licenses::
* Index::
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this manual
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions for this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this manual
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors and Contributors
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

This version of  @command{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} is a version modified by
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project} that contains drivers and
modules previously part of @cite{Linux STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Top, About
This Manual, LiS, Linux STREAMS (LiS) Installation and Reference Manual}.}.  In
stark contrast to many other software packages released by
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}, this package contains code
developed by other parties.

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU
Affero General Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different
licensing terms for the manual pages and some of the documentation (derived from
OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.} publications and
other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation
for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation
License}) with no invariant sections.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a porting guide for the @dfn{STREAMS}
and @dfn{X.25} programmer when porting @dfn{STREAMS} drivers, modules and
applications to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} from other major implementations of
@dfn{X.25}, such as @cite{AIX}, @cite{AIXlink/X.25}, @cite{Digital UNIX},
@cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIX}, @cite{OSF}, @cite{PowerMAX}, @cite{Solaris}, @cite{Solstice X.25},
@cite{SVR4.2}, @cite{Tru64 UNIX}, @cite{UnixWare}, and others.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{X.25}
interfaces and drivers at the user and kernel levels as well as the difference
between the OpenSS7 implementation of X.25 drivers and those of these other
systems.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as a guide to porting @dfn{X.25}
@dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and applications programs from other @dfn{UNIX}
implementations of @dfn{X.25} to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top,
Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual, STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)
Reference Manual}.}.  It is intended to be read alone and is not intended to
replace or supplement the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a
reference for writing code, the manual pages (see @manref{x25(7)}) provide a
better reference to the programmer.  Although this describes the features of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software, system or features
listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should
already be familiar with @cite{Linux} kernel and user application programming,
the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input and output,
interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts,
multiprocessor locks, thread programming, POSIX porgramming, etc.

This guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the
@dfn{STREAMS} and @dfn{X.25} mechanism at user and kernel levels for
@cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communications services.  Readers of the
guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and
@cite{UNIX} system, programming, networking, and data communication.

To derive maximum use from this porting guide, it is intended that the reader
also be familiar with the user of @dfn{STREAMS} and @dfn{X.25} under @cite{UNIX}
and @cite{POSIX} systems implementing @dfn{X.25} drivers and applications
libraries.  The reader should certainly be familiar with the @dfn{X.25}
implementations on the @cite{UNIX} or @cite{POSIX} system from which
@dfn{STREAMS} drivers, modules or applications are being ported.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will
not be notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current
version, contact the @uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7 Project} website for a current
version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log: x25_porting.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-08-03 06:03:41  brian
- protected agains texinfo commands in log entries

Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:55  brian
- added files
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An
opaque (printed, postscript or portable document format) version of this manual
is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this
documentation including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that the contents of the manual
are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such contents will
not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.
In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect,
special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss
of use, data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other
tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of this manual or
the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with
standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization of advances in the state
of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed
herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government
("Government"), the following provisions apply to you.  If the Software is
supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial
Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license
rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in
paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor
regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This guide documents the porting of @dfn{X.25} @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers
and applications programs from various @dfn{UNIX} implementations to @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual,
STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}.

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
* Concepts::			Concepts
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex guide overview

This guide documents the porting of @dfn{X.25} drivers, modules and applications
programs from various @dfn{UNIX} implementations of @dfn{X.25} to @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual,
STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}.  It details some of the
differences between other implementations of @dfn{X.25} and that of @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual,
STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}.

@noindent
In addition, it provides documentation on @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules for
@dfn{X.25} including:

@itemize
@item Linux X.25 Driver (@file{streams-dl.o}),
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Organization
@section Organization
@cindex guide organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conventions
@section Conventions
@cindex guide conventions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concepts
@section Concepts
@cindex concepts

@node Porting
@chapter Porting
@cindex porting

@menu
* Porting Organization::
@end menu

This guide is largely focused on porting @dfn{STREAMS} drivers, modules and
applications programs that act in the capacity of an X.25 User.  Whereas other
documents tend to focus on simply porting drivers for specific interface cards,
that topic is adequately addressed elsewhere for the @cite{Linux} kernel.
Whenever a network device driver has been written for a device under
@cite{Linux}, using @cite{Linux} paradigms and procedures, it can automatically
work with @dfn{X.25}.  Therefore, this guide focusses on the differences between
the @dfn{X.25} interfaces that would be experienced by the X.25 User:
@dfn{STREAMS} modules that push over X.25 Streams; @dfn{STREAMS} drivers under
which X.25 Streams are linked; and applications programs that access the X.25
interface directly as a user-space program.

@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and each of its add-on packages, including
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}, ship with a wide assortment of manual pages.  Most
manual pages contain a section entitled ``@cite{COMPATIBILITY}'' that provides
compatibility and porting information for various mainstream @cite{UNIX}
implementations.  For information on the minor differences in the @dfn{STREAMS}
environment, see the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} package,
@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}.

There are hundreds of manual pages in the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package
for @dfn{X.25}.  These manual pages can be explored best by starting with the
@manref{x25(7)} manual page.  The manual pages document both X.25 Revision
2.0.0 standard behaviour, as well as the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
implementations of extension primitives, input-output controls, and features
documented for other operating systems including @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX},
@cite{IRIX}, @cite{OSF}, @cite{PowerMAX}, @cite{Solaris}, @cite{SVR 4},
@cite{SVR 4.2MP}, @cite{UnixWare 7}.  Although each of the @dfn{X.25} related
manual pages of supported functions, primitives and structures provide
compatibilty and porting information, this document attempts to gather together
pertinent information concerning porting @dfn{X.25} modules, drivers and
applications programs from various @dfn{UNIX} operating systems supporting
@dfn{STREAMS} and @dfn{X.25} to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

Where there is discrepencies between this documentation and the manual pages
that ship with the package, the manual pages are controlling.  This is because
this guide is updated less frequently that the documented functionality in the
manual pages.

@node Porting Organization
@section Porting Organization

The porting information in this guide is organized by the flavor of operating
system from which porting is being attempted.  Note that, aside from
configuration details, any system not listed here that is based on @cite{SVR 4},
@cite{SVR 4.2MP}, or on another of the implementations, should start with that
implementation's portability information.  Porting information is included for
porting from implementations based on a strict interpretation of the @dfn{X.25}
standards, the @cite{AIX} operating system and the @cite{AIXlink/X.25} package,
the @cite{HP-UX} operating system, the @cite{IRIX} operating system, the the
@cite{OSF}, @cite{Digital UNIX}, or @cite{Tru64 UNIX} operating system, the
@cite{PowerMAX} operating system, the @cite{Solaris} operating system and the
@cite{Solstice X.25} or @cite{SunLink X.25} packages, the @cite{SVR 4} and
@cite{SVR 4.2MP} operating system, and the @cite{UnixWare 7} operating system.

Note that additional porting information with regard to porting @dfn{X.25}
applications from various implementations to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is
detailed in the @cite{X.25 Porting Guide} which is part of the @cite{OpenSS7
X.25} package (@file{strx25}).

Porting information is organized into sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
* General Porting Considerations::
* Porting from AIX::
* Porting from HP-UX::
* Porting from IRIX::
* Porting from OSF::
* Porting from PowerMAX::
* Porting from Solaris::
* Porting from SVR4.2::
* Porting from UnixWare::
* Developing on OpenSS7::
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Porting from AIX}
@tab Porting AIX DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from HP-UX}
@tab Porting HP-UX DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from IRIX}
@tab Porting IRIX DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from OSF}
@tab Porting OSF DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from PowerMAX}
@tab Porting PowerMAX DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from Solaris}
@tab Porting Solaris DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from SVR4.2}
@tab Porting SVR4.2 DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Porting from UnixWare}
@tab Porting UnixWare DLPI applications.
@item @ref{Developing on OpenSS7}
@tab Developing DLPI applications on OpenSS7.
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Porting from AIX}
@tab Porting AIX DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from HP-UX}
@tab Porting HP-UX DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from IRIX}
@tab Porting IRIX DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from OSF}
@tab Porting OSF DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from PowerMAX}
@tab Porting PowerMAX DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from Solaris}
@tab Porting Solaris DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from SVR4.2}
@tab Porting SVR4.2 DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Porting from UnixWare}
@tab Porting UnixWare DLPI applications.
@item @cite{Developing on OpenSS7}
@tab Developing DLPI applications on OpenSS7.
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node General Porting Considerations
@chapter General Porting Considerations
@cindex general porting considerations

@section Interfaces
@anchor{Interfaces}

There are four (4) @dfn{STREAMS} service primitive interfaces normally provided
by the X.25 implementations.  These are:

@table @cite
@item Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)

The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) is an UNIX International standard
interface maintained by the OpenGroup that is in Revision 2.0.0 with corrigenda.
For X.25, DLPI normallly provide direct access to the X.25 LAPB protocol or
ISO/IEC 8802 LAPB.

It is specified by ``@cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Data Link Provider
Interface (DLPI) Sepcification, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 20, 1991,
(Parsippany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International
Press.},'' available from @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/dlpi.pdf,The OpenSS7
Project}.@footnote{@file{dlpi.pdf} is distributed with this package.}

@item Network Layer Interface (NLI)

The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is an non-standard interface developed by
Spider, that provides access to the remnants of their X.25, XOL, XOT
implemetnations.  This interface is prevelant in @cite{Solaris}, @cite{HP-UX},
@cite{IRIX}, and other systems.

@item Network Provider Interface (NPI)

The Network Provider Interface (NPI) is a UNIX International standard interface
maintained by the OpenGroup that is in Revision 2.0.0 with corrigenda.  For
X.25, NPI normally provides OSI CONS over X.25, but some implementations use it
for direct access to X.25 (@cite{AIX} does this).

It is specified by ``@cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Network Provider
Interface (NPI) Specification, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 17, 1992,
(Parsippany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International Press.},''
available from @url{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf,The OpenSS7
Project}.@footnote{@file{npi.pdf} is distributed with this package.}

@item X/Open X.25 Interface (XX25)

The X/Open X.25 Interface (XX25) is an standard interface developed by X/Open
and maintained by the OpenGroup.

It is specified by ``@cite{Open Group CAE Specification: X.25 Programming Interface
using XTI (XX25), Document No: C411, November 1995, (Berkshire, UK), X/Open,
Open Group Publication. [ISBN: 1-85912-136-5]}'' available from
@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/, The Open Group}.

@end table

@section Aspects

There are several aspects of porting from the various environments to
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} that can be categorized roughly by the functional
interface to which the aspect corresponds.  These aspects are:

@itemize
@item @cite{Addressing} --
The Addressing aspect is the aspect of associating an address with the local
endpoint and addresses associated with remote endpoints.

@item @cite{Modes} --
The Modes aspect is the aspect of major operating modes of enpoints.

@item @cite{Primitives} --
The Primitives aspect is the aspect of implementing service primitives accross
the service primitive interface.

@item @cite{Input-Output Controls} --
The Input-Output control aspec is the aspect of providing
impelementation-specific input-output control for the control of major aspect
modes, replacement for primtives, or management and administration of the
interface.

@item @cite{Drivers and Modules} --
The Drivers and Modules aspect is the naming, enumeration, and linkage of driver
and modules into protocol stacks.

@item @cite{Libraries and Utilities} --
The Libraries and Utilities aspect is the aspect of C-language programs and
shared object libraries the provide access to the interfaces or permit in the
control of modes, protocol actions, management and adminstration, or protocl
stakc construction and maintenance.

@item @cite{Management} --
The Management aspect is, of course, the aspect of management of the interface
and protocol stack implemetnation using standard SNMP MIBs or CMIP GDMOs.

@end itemize

The aspects can be applied to each of four (4) interfaces offered to X.25 LAPB
and PLP users, described under @ref{Interfaces}.

The sections that following provide an overview of each of these aspects.  Also,
each specific porting section has sub-sections that detail each of these aspects
of a specific porting scenario.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from AIX
@chapter Porting from AIX
@cindex Porting from AIX

This section provides an overview of porting from the @cite{AIX} environment,
and in particular from the @cite{AIXlink/X.25} package.  Most of the
information concerning the @cite{AIXlink/X.25} implementation of X.25 is
contained in the IBM document: ``@cite{AIXlink/X.25 Vesion 2.1 for AIX: Guide
and Reference, No: SC23-2520-07, Eigth Edition, September 2006, (Bolder, CO),
International Business Machines Corp., IBM}'', available from the
@uref{http://publibn.bould.ibm.com/,IBM Documentation Library}.

@menu
* AIX Data Link Provider Interface::
* AIX Network Layer Interface::
* AIX Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node AIX Data Link Provider Interface
@section AIX Data Link Provider Interface

The specific Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) is described in the
AIXlink/X.25 documentation.@footnote{``@cite{AIXlink/X.25 Vesion 2.1 for AIX:
Guide and Reference, No: SC23-2520-07, Eigth Edition, September 2006, (Bolder,
CO), International Business Machines Corp., IBM}'', available from the
@uref{http://publibn.bould.ibm.com/,IBM Documentation Library}.}

Note that @cite{AIXlink/X.25} only documents the ability to use the DLPI
interface for specific LAPB links for which the link is specified as DLPI and
does not provide X.25 packet layer support for such data links.

@menu
* AIX DLPI Addressing::
* AIX DLPI Modes::
* AIX DLPI Primitives::
* AIX DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* AIX DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* AIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* AIX DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node AIX DLPI Addressing
@subsection AIX DLPI Addressing

@node AIX DLPI Modes
@subsection AIX DLPI Modes

@node AIX DLPI Primitives
@subsection AIX DLPI Primitives

@node AIX DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection AIX DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node AIX DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection AIX DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node AIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection AIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node AIX DLPI Management
@subsection AIX DLPI Management


@node AIX Network Layer Interface
@section AIX Network Layer Interface

@c @menu
@c * AIX NLI Addressing::
@c * AIX NLI Modes::
@c * AIX NLI Primitives::
@c * AIX NLI Input-Output Controls::
@c * AIX NLI Drivers and Modules::
@c * AIX NLI Libraries and Utilities::
@c * AIX NLI Management::
@c @end menu

@cite{AIX} does not document a @cite{Network Layer Interface (NLI)}.  It only
documents a @cite{Network Provider Interface (NPI)} in support of X.25
applications.  Nevertheless, it appears that the NPI provided by
@cite{AIXlink/X.25} is merely an ``@file{npi}'' module pushed over an NLI
Stream opened on an X.25 packet layer protocol driver.  So, although it is not
documented, it appears that the X.25 packet layer protocol driver provided by
@cite{AIXlink/X.25} is indeed a Spider NLI driver.

@c @node AIX NLI Addressing
@c @subsection AIX NLI Addressing
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Modes
@c @subsection AIX NLI Modes
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Primitives
@c @subsection AIX NLI Primitives
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Input-Output Controls
@c @subsection AIX NLI Input-Output Controls
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Drivers and Modules
@c @subsection AIX NLI Drivers and Modules
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Libraries and Utilities
@c @subsection AIX NLI Libraries and Utilities
@c 
@c @node AIX NLI Management
@c @subsection AIX NLI Management
@c 

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}, on the other hand, provides both NLI and NPI
interface for X.25 drivers, modules and applications.

@node AIX Network Provider Interface
@section AIX Network Provider Interface

@menu
* AIX NPI Addressing::
* AIX NPI Modes::
* AIX NPI Primitives::
* AIX NPI Input-Output Controls::
* AIX NPI Drivers and Modules::
* AIX NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* AIX NPI Management::
@end menu

@node AIX NPI Addressing
@subsection AIX NPI Addressing

@subsubsection AIX NPI Driver Naming

For an application to use NPI, it would typically follow these steps:

@enumerate
@item Open a Stream to the packet driver.
@item Pushe the NPI module.
@item Bind the application to the NPI module.
@item Submit a connection request to establish a connection between the local
and remote X.25 systems.
@item Once the connection becomes established, transfer the required data.
@item Disconnect the two systems.
@end enumerate

The example @cite{AIXlink/X.25} gives is:

@smallexample
dev = open("/dev/x25pkt", O_RDWR);
/* assumes good return value */
ioctl(dev, I_PUSH, "npi"); /* uses the streams library push ioctl */
@end smallexample

@node AIX NPI Modes
@subsection AIX NPI Modes

@node AIX NPI Primitives
@subsection AIX NPI Primitives

@subsubsection AIX NPI Supported Primitives

The following local management primitives are supported by
@cite{AIXlink/X.25}:

@multitable @columnfractions 0.35 0.65
@item @prim{N_INFO_REQ} -- @tab specifies a network information request.
@item @prim{N_INFO_ACK} -- @tab indicates a network information acknowledgement.
@item @prim{N_BIND_REQ} -- @tab specifies a bind protocol address request.
@item @prim{N_BIND_ACK} -- @tab indicates a bind protocol address acknowlegement.
@item @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ} -- @tab specifies an unbind protocol address request.
@item @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} -- @tab provides error acknowledgement.
@item @prim{N_OK_ACK} -- @tab provides successful receipt acknowledgement.
@end multitable

The following connection-oriented mode primitives are supported by
@cite{AIXlink/X.25}:

@multitable @columnfractions 0.35 0.65
@item @prim{N_CONN_REQ} -- @tab specifies a network connection request.
@item @prim{N_CONN_IND} -- @tab provides a network connection indication.
@item @prim{N_CONN_RES} -- @tab specifies a network connection response.
@item @prim{N_CONN_CON} -- @tab provides a network connection confirmation.
@item @prim{N_DATA_REQ} -- @tab specifies a normal data transfer request.
@item @prim{N_DATA_IND} -- @tab provides a normal data transfer indication.
@item @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} -- @tab specifies a data acknowledgement request.
@item @prim{N_DATACK_IND} -- @tab provides a data acknowledgemeent indication.
@item @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ} -- @tab specifies an expedited data transfer request. 
@item @prim{N_EXDATA_IND} -- @tab provides an expedited data transfer indication.
@item @prim{N_RESET_REQ} -- @tab specifies a reset request.
@item @prim{N_RESET_IND} -- @tab provides a reset indication.
@item @prim{N_RESET_RES} -- @tab specifies a reset response.
@item @prim{N_RESET_CON} -- @tab provides a reset confirmation.
@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} -- @tab initiates a disconnect request.
@item @prim{N_DISCON_IND} -- @tab proivdes a disconnect indication.
@end multitable

@subsubsection AIX NPI Unsupported Primitives

@subsubsection AIX NPI Modified Primitives

@cite{AIXlinx/X.25} modifies the following primitives and their associated
structures:

@itemize
@item @prim{N_BIND_REQ}

Adds the @pval{TRANSPAC_OPT} flag to the @parm{BIND_flags} field.  Modifies
the form of the address to be @cite{AIXlink/X.25}-specific.  Modifies the form
of the protocol identifiers field to be @cite{AIXlink/X.25}-specific.

@item @prim{N_INFO_ACK}

@cite{AIXlink/X.25} documents the following fields having value
@pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}, which is inconsistent with NPI: @parm{ADDR_length},
@parm{ADDR_offset}, @parm{QOS_length}, @parm{QOS_offset},
@parm{QOS_range_length}, @parm{QOS_range_offset}, @parm{OPTIONS_flags},
@parm{CURRENT_state}, @parm{PROVIDER_type}, @parm{NODU_size},
@parm{NPI_version}.

@item @prim{N_RESET_REQ}

Form of the primitive adjusted to include CCITT cause and diagnostic values.


@item @prim{N_RESET_IND}

Form of the primitive adjusted to include CCITT cause and diagnostic values.


@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}

Form of the primitive adjusted to include CCITT cause and diagnostic values.


@item @prim{N_DISCON_IND}

Form of the primitive adjusted to include CCITT cause and diagnostic values.


@end itemize

@node AIX NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection AIX NPI Input-Output Controls

@node AIX NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection AIX NPI Drivers and Modules

@cite{AIXlink/X.25} provides the @file{/dev/x25pkct} device driver that
appears to be a Spider NLI device driver and documents pushing the
``@file{npi}'' module onto a Stream opened on this device to provide an NPI
interface to the X.25 driver.

@node AIX NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection AIX NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node AIX NPI Management
@subsection AIX NPI Management


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from HP-UX
@chapter Porting from HP-UX
@cindex Porting from HP-UX

This chapter is applicable to porting X.25 drivers, modules and applications
from @cite{HP-UX}, and in particular the @cite{HP X.25/9000} STREAMS drivers,
to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@menu
* HP-UX Data Link Provider Interface::
* HP-UX Network Layer Interface::
* HP-UX Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node HP-UX Data Link Provider Interface
@section HP-UX Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* HP-UX DLPI Addressing::
* HP-UX DLPI Modes::
* HP-UX DLPI Primitives::
* HP-UX DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* HP-UX DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* HP-UX DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* HP-UX DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node HP-UX DLPI Addressing
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Addressing

@node HP-UX DLPI Modes
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Modes

@node HP-UX DLPI Primitives
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Primitives

@node HP-UX DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node HP-UX DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node HP-UX DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node HP-UX DLPI Management
@subsection HP-UX DLPI Management


@node HP-UX Network Layer Interface
@section HP-UX Network Layer Interface

@menu
* HP-UX NLI Addressing::
* HP-UX NLI Modes::
* HP-UX NLI Primitives::
* HP-UX NLI Input-Output Controls::
* HP-UX NLI Drivers and Modules::
* HP-UX NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* HP-UX NLI Management::
@end menu

@node HP-UX NLI Addressing
@subsection HP-UX NLI Addressing

@node HP-UX NLI Modes
@subsection HP-UX NLI Modes

@node HP-UX NLI Primitives
@subsection HP-UX NLI Primitives

@node HP-UX NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection HP-UX NLI Input-Output Controls

@node HP-UX NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection HP-UX NLI Drivers and Modules

@node HP-UX NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection HP-UX NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node HP-UX NLI Management
@subsection HP-UX NLI Management


@node HP-UX Network Provider Interface
@section HP-UX Network Provider Interface

@menu
* HP-UX NPI Addressing::
* HP-UX NPI Modes::
* HP-UX NPI Primitives::
* HP-UX NPI Input-Output Controls::
* HP-UX NPI Drivers and Modules::
* HP-UX NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* HP-UX NPI Management::
@end menu

@node HP-UX NPI Addressing
@subsection HP-UX NPI Addressing

@node HP-UX NPI Modes
@subsection HP-UX NPI Modes

@node HP-UX NPI Primitives
@subsection HP-UX NPI Primitives

@node HP-UX NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection HP-UX NPI Input-Output Controls

@node HP-UX NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection HP-UX NPI Drivers and Modules

@node HP-UX NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection HP-UX NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node HP-UX NPI Management
@subsection HP-UX NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from IRIX
@chapter Porting from IRIX
@cindex Porting from IRIX

This chapter is applicable to porting STREAMS X.25 drivers, modules and
applications from the @cite{IRIX} operating system to @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

@cite{IRIX} obviously provides direct support for a Spider NLI X.25
implementation as documented in ``@cite{SX.25 NLI Programmer's Guide, No.
007-2268-002, 1994, (), Silicon Graphisc, Inc., SGI Technical Publications},''
available from @uref{http://techpubs.sgi.com/,SGI Technical Publications}.

The Network Layer Interface (NLI) to the X.25 Packet Layer Protocol (PLP) was
developed by Spider Systems, Ltd., and is widely available on many platforms.

@menu
* IRIX Data Link Provider Interface::
* IRIX Network Layer Interface::
* IRIX Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node IRIX Data Link Provider Interface
@section IRIX Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* IRIX DLPI Addressing::
* IRIX DLPI Modes::
* IRIX DLPI Primitives::
* IRIX DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* IRIX DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* IRIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* IRIX DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node IRIX DLPI Addressing
@subsection IRIX DLPI Addressing

@node IRIX DLPI Modes
@subsection IRIX DLPI Modes

@node IRIX DLPI Primitives
@subsection IRIX DLPI Primitives

@node IRIX DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection IRIX DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node IRIX DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection IRIX DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node IRIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection IRIX DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node IRIX DLPI Management
@subsection IRIX DLPI Management


@node IRIX Network Layer Interface
@section IRIX Network Layer Interface

@menu
* IRIX NLI Addressing::
* IRIX NLI Modes::
* IRIX NLI Primitives::
* IRIX NLI Input-Output Controls::
* IRIX NLI Drivers and Modules::
* IRIX NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* IRIX NLI Management::
@end menu

@node IRIX NLI Addressing
@subsection IRIX NLI Addressing

@node IRIX NLI Modes
@subsection IRIX NLI Modes

@node IRIX NLI Primitives
@subsection IRIX NLI Primitives

@node IRIX NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection IRIX NLI Input-Output Controls

@cite{IRIX} documents the following input-output controls:

@itemize
@item @dlioc{N_getnliversion} -- gets the NLI interface version.
@end itemize

@itemize
@item @dlioc{N_snident} --
@item @dlioc{N_snmode} --
@item @dlioc{N_snconfig} --
@item @dlioc{N_snread} --
@item @dlioc{N_getstats} --
@item @dlioc{N_zerostats} --
@item @dlioc{N_putpvcmap} --
@item @dlioc{N_getpvcmap} --
@item @dlioc{N_getVCstatus} --
@item @dlioc{N_getnliversion} --
@item @dlioc{N_traceon} --
@item @dlioc{N_traceoff} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuimsg} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuiput} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuidel} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuiget} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuimget} --
@item @dlioc{N_nuireset} --
@item @dlioc{N_zeroVCstats} --
@item @dlioc{N_putx32map} --
@item @dlioc{N_getx32map} --
@item @dlioc{N_getSNIDstats} --
@item @dlioc{N_zeroSNIDstats} --
@item @dlioc{N_setQOSDATPRI} --
@item @dlioc{N_resetQOSDATPRI} --
@end itemize

@node IRIX NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection IRIX NLI Drivers and Modules

@cite{IRIX} provides the NLI driver, but also provides an NLI conversion
module that permits older NLI version applications to run unaltered over the
newer NLI driver.

Under @cite{IRIX}, the device driver name is @file{/dev/x25}.

Under @cite{IRIX}, the name of the vesion conversion module is
``@file{s_nli3}''.

@node IRIX NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection IRIX NLI Libraries and Utilities

The @file{libsx25.a} library provides some potentially useful functions.

@node IRIX NLI Management
@subsection IRIX NLI Management


@node IRIX Network Provider Interface
@section IRIX Network Provider Interface

@menu
* IRIX NPI Addressing::
* IRIX NPI Modes::
* IRIX NPI Primitives::
* IRIX NPI Input-Output Controls::
* IRIX NPI Drivers and Modules::
* IRIX NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* IRIX NPI Management::
@end menu

@node IRIX NPI Addressing
@subsection IRIX NPI Addressing

@node IRIX NPI Modes
@subsection IRIX NPI Modes

@node IRIX NPI Primitives
@subsection IRIX NPI Primitives

@node IRIX NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection IRIX NPI Input-Output Controls

@node IRIX NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection IRIX NPI Drivers and Modules

@node IRIX NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection IRIX NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node IRIX NPI Management
@subsection IRIX NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from OSF
@chapter Porting from OSF
@cindex Porting from OSF

@menu
* OSF Data Link Provider Interface::
* OSF Network Layer Interface::
* OSF Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node OSF Data Link Provider Interface
@section OSF Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* OSF DLPI Addressing::
* OSF DLPI Modes::
* OSF DLPI Primitives::
* OSF DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* OSF DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* OSF DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* OSF DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node OSF DLPI Addressing
@subsection OSF DLPI Addressing

@node OSF DLPI Modes
@subsection OSF DLPI Modes

@node OSF DLPI Primitives
@subsection OSF DLPI Primitives

@node OSF DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OSF DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node OSF DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OSF DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node OSF DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OSF DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node OSF DLPI Management
@subsection OSF DLPI Management


@node OSF Network Layer Interface
@section OSF Network Layer Interface

@menu
* OSF NLI Addressing::
* OSF NLI Modes::
* OSF NLI Primitives::
* OSF NLI Input-Output Controls::
* OSF NLI Drivers and Modules::
* OSF NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* OSF NLI Management::
@end menu

@node OSF NLI Addressing
@subsection OSF NLI Addressing

@node OSF NLI Modes
@subsection OSF NLI Modes

@node OSF NLI Primitives
@subsection OSF NLI Primitives

@node OSF NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OSF NLI Input-Output Controls

@node OSF NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OSF NLI Drivers and Modules

@node OSF NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OSF NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node OSF NLI Management
@subsection OSF NLI Management


@node OSF Network Provider Interface
@section OSF Network Provider Interface

@menu
* OSF NPI Addressing::
* OSF NPI Modes::
* OSF NPI Primitives::
* OSF NPI Input-Output Controls::
* OSF NPI Drivers and Modules::
* OSF NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* OSF NPI Management::
@end menu

@node OSF NPI Addressing
@subsection OSF NPI Addressing

@node OSF NPI Modes
@subsection OSF NPI Modes

@node OSF NPI Primitives
@subsection OSF NPI Primitives

@node OSF NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OSF NPI Input-Output Controls

@node OSF NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OSF NPI Drivers and Modules

@node OSF NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OSF NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node OSF NPI Management
@subsection OSF NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from PowerMAX
@chapter Porting from PowerMAX
@cindex Porting from PowerMAX

@menu
* PowerMAX Data Link Provider Interface::
* PowerMAX Network Layer Interface::
* PowerMAX Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node PowerMAX Data Link Provider Interface
@section PowerMAX Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* PowerMAX DLPI Addressing::
* PowerMAX DLPI Modes::
* PowerMAX DLPI Primitives::
* PowerMAX DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* PowerMAX DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* PowerMAX DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* PowerMAX DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node PowerMAX DLPI Addressing
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Addressing

@node PowerMAX DLPI Modes
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Modes

@node PowerMAX DLPI Primitives
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Primitives

@node PowerMAX DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node PowerMAX DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node PowerMAX DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node PowerMAX DLPI Management
@subsection PowerMAX DLPI Management


@node PowerMAX Network Layer Interface
@section PowerMAX Network Layer Interface

@menu
* PowerMAX NLI Addressing::
* PowerMAX NLI Modes::
* PowerMAX NLI Primitives::
* PowerMAX NLI Input-Output Controls::
* PowerMAX NLI Drivers and Modules::
* PowerMAX NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* PowerMAX NLI Management::
@end menu

@node PowerMAX NLI Addressing
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Addressing

@node PowerMAX NLI Modes
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Modes

@node PowerMAX NLI Primitives
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Primitives

@node PowerMAX NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Input-Output Controls

@node PowerMAX NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Drivers and Modules

@node PowerMAX NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node PowerMAX NLI Management
@subsection PowerMAX NLI Management


@node PowerMAX Network Provider Interface
@section PowerMAX Network Provider Interface

@menu
* PowerMAX NPI Addressing::
* PowerMAX NPI Modes::
* PowerMAX NPI Primitives::
* PowerMAX NPI Input-Output Controls::
* PowerMAX NPI Drivers and Modules::
* PowerMAX NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* PowerMAX NPI Management::
@end menu

@node PowerMAX NPI Addressing
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Addressing

@node PowerMAX NPI Modes
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Modes

@node PowerMAX NPI Primitives
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Primitives

@node PowerMAX NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Input-Output Controls

@node PowerMAX NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Drivers and Modules

@node PowerMAX NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node PowerMAX NPI Management
@subsection PowerMAX NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from Solaris
@chapter Porting from Solaris
@cindex Porting from Solaris

@menu
* Solaris Data Link Provider Interface::
* Solaris Network Layer Interface::
* Solaris Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node Solaris Data Link Provider Interface
@section Solaris Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* Solaris DLPI Addressing::
* Solaris DLPI Modes::
* Solaris DLPI Primitives::
* Solaris DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* Solaris DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* Solaris DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* Solaris DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node Solaris DLPI Addressing
@subsection Solaris DLPI Addressing

@node Solaris DLPI Modes
@subsection Solaris DLPI Modes

@node Solaris DLPI Primitives
@subsection Solaris DLPI Primitives

@node Solaris DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection Solaris DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node Solaris DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection Solaris DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node Solaris DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection Solaris DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node Solaris DLPI Management
@subsection Solaris DLPI Management


@node Solaris Network Layer Interface
@section Solaris Network Layer Interface

@menu
* Solaris NLI Addressing::
* Solaris NLI Modes::
* Solaris NLI Primitives::
* Solaris NLI Input-Output Controls::
* Solaris NLI Drivers and Modules::
* Solaris NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* Solaris NLI Management::
@end menu

@node Solaris NLI Addressing
@subsection Solaris NLI Addressing

@node Solaris NLI Modes
@subsection Solaris NLI Modes

@node Solaris NLI Primitives
@subsection Solaris NLI Primitives

@node Solaris NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection Solaris NLI Input-Output Controls

@node Solaris NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection Solaris NLI Drivers and Modules

@node Solaris NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection Solaris NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node Solaris NLI Management
@subsection Solaris NLI Management


@node Solaris Network Provider Interface
@section Solaris Network Provider Interface

@menu
* Solaris NPI Addressing::
* Solaris NPI Modes::
* Solaris NPI Primitives::
* Solaris NPI Input-Output Controls::
* Solaris NPI Drivers and Modules::
* Solaris NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* Solaris NPI Management::
@end menu

@node Solaris NPI Addressing
@subsection Solaris NPI Addressing

@node Solaris NPI Modes
@subsection Solaris NPI Modes

@node Solaris NPI Primitives
@subsection Solaris NPI Primitives

@node Solaris NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection Solaris NPI Input-Output Controls

@node Solaris NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection Solaris NPI Drivers and Modules

@node Solaris NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection Solaris NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node Solaris NPI Management
@subsection Solaris NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from SVR4.2
@chapter Porting from SVR4.2
@cindex Porting from SVR4.2

@menu
* SVR4.2 Data Link Provider Interface::
* SVR4.2 Network Layer Interface::
* SVR4.2 Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node SVR4.2 Data Link Provider Interface
@section SVR4.2 Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* SVR4.2 DLPI Addressing::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Modes::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Primitives::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* SVR4.2 DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Addressing
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Addressing

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Modes
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Modes

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Primitives
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Primitives

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node SVR4.2 DLPI Management
@subsection SVR4.2 DLPI Management


@node SVR4.2 Network Layer Interface
@section SVR4.2 Network Layer Interface

@menu
* SVR4.2 NLI Addressing::
* SVR4.2 NLI Modes::
* SVR4.2 NLI Primitives::
* SVR4.2 NLI Input-Output Controls::
* SVR4.2 NLI Drivers and Modules::
* SVR4.2 NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* SVR4.2 NLI Management::
@end menu

@node SVR4.2 NLI Addressing
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Addressing

@node SVR4.2 NLI Modes
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Modes

@node SVR4.2 NLI Primitives
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Primitives

@node SVR4.2 NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Input-Output Controls

@node SVR4.2 NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Drivers and Modules

@node SVR4.2 NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node SVR4.2 NLI Management
@subsection SVR4.2 NLI Management


@node SVR4.2 Network Provider Interface
@section SVR4.2 Network Provider Interface

@menu
* SVR4.2 NPI Addressing::
* SVR4.2 NPI Modes::
* SVR4.2 NPI Primitives::
* SVR4.2 NPI Input-Output Controls::
* SVR4.2 NPI Drivers and Modules::
* SVR4.2 NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* SVR4.2 NPI Management::
@end menu

@node SVR4.2 NPI Addressing
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Addressing

@node SVR4.2 NPI Modes
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Modes

@node SVR4.2 NPI Primitives
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Primitives

@node SVR4.2 NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Input-Output Controls

@node SVR4.2 NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Drivers and Modules

@node SVR4.2 NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node SVR4.2 NPI Management
@subsection SVR4.2 NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Porting from UnixWare
@chapter Porting from UnixWare
@cindex Porting from UnixWare

@menu
* UnixWare Data Link Provider Interface::
* UnixWare Network Layer Interface::
* UnixWare Network Provider Interface::
@end menu

@node UnixWare Data Link Provider Interface
@section UnixWare Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* UnixWare DLPI Addressing::
* UnixWare DLPI Modes::
* UnixWare DLPI Primitives::
* UnixWare DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* UnixWare DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* UnixWare DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* UnixWare DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node UnixWare DLPI Addressing
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Addressing

@node UnixWare DLPI Modes
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Modes

@node UnixWare DLPI Primitives
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Primitives

@node UnixWare DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node UnixWare DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node UnixWare DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node UnixWare DLPI Management
@subsection UnixWare DLPI Management


@node UnixWare Network Layer Interface
@section UnixWare Network Layer Interface

@menu
* UnixWare NLI Addressing::
* UnixWare NLI Modes::
* UnixWare NLI Primitives::
* UnixWare NLI Input-Output Controls::
* UnixWare NLI Drivers and Modules::
* UnixWare NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* UnixWare NLI Management::
@end menu

@node UnixWare NLI Addressing
@subsection UnixWare NLI Addressing

@node UnixWare NLI Modes
@subsection UnixWare NLI Modes

@node UnixWare NLI Primitives
@subsection UnixWare NLI Primitives

@node UnixWare NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection UnixWare NLI Input-Output Controls

@node UnixWare NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection UnixWare NLI Drivers and Modules

@node UnixWare NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection UnixWare NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node UnixWare NLI Management
@subsection UnixWare NLI Management


@node UnixWare Network Provider Interface
@section UnixWare Network Provider Interface

@menu
* UnixWare NPI Addressing::
* UnixWare NPI Modes::
* UnixWare NPI Primitives::
* UnixWare NPI Input-Output Controls::
* UnixWare NPI Drivers and Modules::
* UnixWare NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* UnixWare NPI Management::
@end menu

@node UnixWare NPI Addressing
@subsection UnixWare NPI Addressing

@node UnixWare NPI Modes
@subsection UnixWare NPI Modes

@node UnixWare NPI Primitives
@subsection UnixWare NPI Primitives

@node UnixWare NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection UnixWare NPI Input-Output Controls

@node UnixWare NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection UnixWare NPI Drivers and Modules

@node UnixWare NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection UnixWare NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node UnixWare NPI Management
@subsection UnixWare NPI Management

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Developing on OpenSS7
@chapter Developing on OpenSS7
@cindex Developing on OpenSS7

@menu
* OpenSS7 Data Link Provider Interface::
* OpenSS7 Network Layer Interface::
* OpenSS7 Network Provider Interface::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Interface::
@end menu

@node OpenSS7 Data Link Provider Interface
@section OpenSS7 Data Link Provider Interface

@menu
* OpenSS7 DLPI Addressing::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Modes::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Primitives::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Input-Output Controls::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Drivers and Modules::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Libraries and Utilities::
* OpenSS7 DLPI Management::
@end menu

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Addressing
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Addressing

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Modes
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Modes

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Primitives
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Primitives

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Input-Output Controls

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Drivers and Modules

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Libraries and Utilities

@node OpenSS7 DLPI Management
@subsection OpenSS7 DLPI Management


@node OpenSS7 Network Layer Interface
@section OpenSS7 Network Layer Interface

@menu
* OpenSS7 NLI Addressing::
* OpenSS7 NLI Modes::
* OpenSS7 NLI Primitives::
* OpenSS7 NLI Input-Output Controls::
* OpenSS7 NLI Drivers and Modules::
* OpenSS7 NLI Libraries and Utilities::
* OpenSS7 NLI Management::
@end menu

@node OpenSS7 NLI Addressing
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Addressing

@node OpenSS7 NLI Modes
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Modes

@node OpenSS7 NLI Primitives
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Primitives

@node OpenSS7 NLI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Input-Output Controls

@node OpenSS7 NLI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Drivers and Modules

@node OpenSS7 NLI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Libraries and Utilities

@node OpenSS7 NLI Management
@subsection OpenSS7 NLI Management


@node OpenSS7 Network Provider Interface
@section OpenSS7 Network Provider Interface

@menu
* OpenSS7 NPI Addressing::
* OpenSS7 NPI Modes::
* OpenSS7 NPI Primitives::
* OpenSS7 NPI Input-Output Controls::
* OpenSS7 NPI Drivers and Modules::
* OpenSS7 NPI Libraries and Utilities::
* OpenSS7 NPI Management::
@end menu

@node OpenSS7 NPI Addressing
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Addressing

@node OpenSS7 NPI Modes
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Modes

@node OpenSS7 NPI Primitives
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Primitives

@node OpenSS7 NPI Input-Output Controls
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Input-Output Controls

@node OpenSS7 NPI Drivers and Modules
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Drivers and Modules

@node OpenSS7 NPI Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Libraries and Utilities

@node OpenSS7 NPI Management
@subsection OpenSS7 NPI Management

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Interface
@section OpenSS7 XX25 Interface

@menu
* OpenSS7 XX25 Addressing::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Modes::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Primitives::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Input-Output Controls::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Drivers and Modules::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Libraries and Utilities::
* OpenSS7 XX25 Management::
@end menu

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Addressing
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Addressing

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Modes
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Modes

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Primitives
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Primitives

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Input-Output Controls
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Input-Output Controls

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Drivers and Modules
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Drivers and Modules

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Libraries and Utilities
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Libraries and Utilities

@node OpenSS7 XX25 Management
@subsection OpenSS7 XX25 Management


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* UNIX International DLPI License::	The UII DLPI license
* UNIX International NPI License::	The UII NPI license
* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/uidlpi.texi
@page
@include texi/uinpi.texi
@page
@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl12.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@cindex index
@printindex cp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
