'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strsctp.5.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 23:13:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:13:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strsctp.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 23:13:20  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/05 06:24:55  brian
.\" - doc updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:21:37  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for release
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH @PACKAGE_UCNAME@ 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- the @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or, in
this case, where the functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of implementations.  The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced
.I STREAMS
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.  This package provides support for Stream Control Transmision Protocol based on the
.IR "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)" ,
.BR tpi (7),
not provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.IR STREAMS (9)
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons that
implement and provide
the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
.[
rfc2960
.]
.[
rfc4460
.]
.PP
The package currently provides the following
.IR STREAMS (9)
modules and drivers:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
cw(1u)1lbcliss.
\-:streams_sctp.ko:driver:/dev/sctp_n, /dev/sctp_t
\-:streams_tpiperf.ko:module:\(lqtpiperf\(rq
.TE
.TP
.BR sctp (4)
The
.BR sctp (4)
driver is a
.IR STREAMS (9)
pseudo-device driver that provides
.BR /dev/sctp_n " and " /dev/sctp_t
devices.  See the
.BR sctp (4)
manual page for more information.
.TP
.BR tpiperf (4)
The
.BR tpiperf (4)
module is a pushable
.IR STREAMS (9)
module that provides special capabilities for performance testing of TPI
providers.
See the
.BR tpiperf (4)
manual page for more information.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:
.TP
.BR libsctp (3)
The
.BR libsctp (3)
library provides compatibility with the suggested SCTP sockets API.
This library requires the
.BR strsock (5)
package.  It provides the following functions:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lb1lw(1u)1lsss.
sctp_bindx\fR(3):\-:T{
bind SCTP socket to multiple addresses.
T}
sctp_connectx\fR(3):\-:T{
connect SCTP socket to multiple addresses.
T}
getsockopt\fR(3):\-:T{
set SCTP socket options.
T}
setsockopt\fR(3):\-:T{
get SCTP socket options.
T}
.TE
.RE
.PP
This library is incomplete.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is complete and has been in production use for both
.I LiS
and
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
for a number of years.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lb1lw(1u)1lssss.
sctp\fR(4):\-:T{
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
T}
sctp_ioctl\fR(4):\-:T{
specialized SCTP input-output controls.
T}
sctp_n\fR(4):\-:T{
the
.BR sctp (4)
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7)
Connection Oriented Network Service device.
T}
sctp_n\fR(4):\-:T{
the
.BR sctp (4)
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7)
Connection Oriented Network Service device.
T}
sctp_t\fR(4):\-:T{
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7)
Connection Oriented Transport Service device with Orderly Release.
T}
tpiperf\fR(4):\-:T{
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7)
performance testing
.IR STREAMS (9)
module.
T}
strsctp\fR(5):\-:T{
the
.B @PACKAGE@
package.
T}
npi_sctp\fR(7):\-:T{
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
.IR "Corrigendum for SCTP Conformance" .
T}
tpi_sctp\fR(7):\-:T{
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
.IR "Corrigendum for SCTP Conformance" .
T}
xti_sctp\fR(3):\-:T{
X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti
.]
.BR xti (3),
.IR "Use of the XTI with SCTP" .
T}
strsctp_mknod\fR(8):\-:T{
create or remove SCTP device nodes.
T}
test-etsi_n\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP NPI interface ETSI validate test case executable.
T}
test-etsi_t\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP TPI interface ETSI validate test case executable.
T}
test-interop\fR(8):\-:T{
10th SCTP Interop test program.
T}
test-sctp\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP quick check test.
T}
test-sctp_n2\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP NPI interface validation test case executable
T}
test-sctp_n\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP NPI interface validation test case executable
T}
test-sctp_nc\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP NPI Client test program
T}
test-sctp_ns\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP NPI Server test program
T}
test-sctp_t\fR(8):\-:T{
SCTP TPI interface validation test case executable.
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.IR STREAMS (9)
moduels:
.HP
.BR tpiperf (4)\ \-\ \c
TPI performance test module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.IR STREAMS (9)
devices:
.HP
.BR sctp (4)\ \-\ \c
The SCTP pseudo-device driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ `uname\ -r` /streams/streams_sctp.ko
The
.BR sctp (4)
.IR STREAMS (9)
driver kernel module.
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ `uname\ -r` /streams/streams_tpiperf.ko
The
.BR tpiperf (4)
.IR STREAMS (9)
module kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
X/Open Networking Services package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
XTI/TLI Library package.
.TP
.BR strnsl (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Network Selection Library package.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Sockets Library package.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.I Production
releases are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project
and validated on specific distributions and architectures.
.I Production
release packages do not ship with known defects.  Please rememaber that there
is
.B NO WARRANTY
on public release packages.
.PP
.I Production
packages ship containing a list of validated distributions and architectures.
Full regression testing of any maintenance changes is performed.  Suitability
of software in this category for production use on the specified target
distributions and architectures is at the discretion of the user.  It should
not be necessary to perform validation tests on the set of supported target
systems before considering production use.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a
.I production
release.  Nevertheless, some remaining unknown defects could possibly be
harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
and external entities on this software for the set of systems listed in the
release notes.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to configure or
compile on other systems.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you validate this software for your target system before using
this software.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I production
software.  As such, it is stable on validated systems but might still crash
your kernel in unique circumstances.  Installation of the software on a
non-validated distribution might mangle your header files or Linux
distribution in such a way as to make it unusable and rebooting the system
might not repair the problem.  You possibly lose all the data on your system.
Because this software stands a chance of crashing your kernel, the resulting
unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or peripherals making
them unusable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run
this software.
.B YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, and is considered production grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (4),
.BR strsctp (5),
.BR strsctp_mknod (8),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is compatible with other SCTP implementations and was interoperability tested
at the IETF supported 2nd and 9th and 10th SCTP interoperatbility events,
twice at ETSI at the headquarters in Sophia Antipolis, France, and once at the
University of British Columbia, Canada.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 2960,
.[
rfc2960
.]
RFC 3309,
.[
rfc3309
.]
RFC 4460,
.[
rfc4460
.]
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
TPI,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
XTI,
.[
xti
.]
XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
To date\(emasside from the protocol specification\(emthere is no standard for the
interface or implementation of SCTP.
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-sctp (8),
.BR test-etsi_n (8),
.BR test-etsi_t (8),
.BR test-interop (8),
.BR test-sctp_n2 (8),
.BR test-sctp_n "(8) and "
.BR test-sctp_t (8),
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
is one of the original kernel implementations of SCTP.
.PP
The
.IR STREAMS (9)
version of SCTP was separated from the
.BR strss7 (5)
package to become the
.BR strsctp (5)
package in the 0.8.2 releases.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is a stable, production grade release.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.PP
The SCTP package is a stable production release and is largely in
maintenance mode.  There are, nevertheless, several items remaining to be
done.  See the
.RI \(lq TODO \(rq
file in the release for detailed information on further development.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
